Eddie Murphy's disease causes strange SNL appearance
Rumors have recently been circulating as to the odd appearance by Eddie Murphy at the Saturday Night Live 40 year anniversary show. An employee at NBC has leaked information that may shed some light on the situation. It seems that Murphy suffers from a disease similar to Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), although in his case, the demons he is fighting are the characters he himself invented, and has been battling against for many years. An interview with Murphy's limo driver revealed that, on the way to the show, Murphy was acting out all the characters he used to play on the show; Buckwheat, Gumby, Mr. Robinson, Michael Jackson, and even Mr. T. Upon arriving at NBC studios, producers said he had a crazed look in his eyes, and he was sweating profusely. They recalled how he would become insanely nervous before each show, when he would perform, back in the early '80's. Doctors are now calling this disorder, post-SNL syndrome. They have begun to examine other long time cast members, to see if they too suffer the same horrors as Murphy. Supposedly, Dana Carvey checked into an institution the next day to, \"get some much needed rest.\" Murphy did not look well, when he took the stage that night, and it was clearly visible that something was wrong. The fact that he made the same joke within 30 seconds of material should have tipped people off, right then, that he was in pain. His stage fright, coupled with the post-SNL disorder, and we are lucky we got to see him at all. Since the night of the event, he has been holed up in his Beverly Hills mansion, eating crackers, sitting in a rocking chair, with a shotgun in his lap, and whistling. Murphy's limo driver also reported, that on the way home from the event, Murphy demanded that the driver play the song \"Somebody's Watching Me\". A song which Murphy claims was originally his and can actually be found on the flip side of some copies of his record \"Party All the Time.\" Murphy has entertained, and brought joy, to millions, over the years. All we can do now, is hope that he is able to recover from this, and next time we think about trotting old celebrities onto a stage for our simple amusement, maybe we should think again.