Monica Lewinsky Forms Exploratory Committee For Potential 2016 White House Run
Ms. Lewinsky soared back into the public spotlight after calling herself “Patient Zero” in what is now considered by some to be a culture that accepts cyberbullying as a societal norm. Lewinsky singled out the website “the Drudge Report” as leading to what she referred to as having her “reputation completely destroyed worldwide via the Internet.” It is speculated that part of a proposed Presidential run would focus around tightening security on the internet and placing greater responsibility on social networks to more effectively police cyberbullies . Neither President Bill Clinton, nor his wife Hillary Rodham Clinton, have commented on the latest Lewinsky bombshell. Mrs. Clinton is also a name currently speculated to also be seeking a Presidential run in 2016. It is unknown if Ms. Lewinsky’s intentions will affect Mrs. Clinton’s potential aspirations or not. Many political analysts scoffed at Hillary potentially backing out of the race due to Lewinsky throwing her hat in the ring. “Hillary would wipe the floor with Monica. It would be a bloodbath. It would be the Yankees playing against a Little League team,” said one such analyst speaking on condition of anonymity. “The timing of this is quite interesting,” said Stephen Hansen, Professor of Political Science at Missoula Technical Institute, “One has to wonder if Monica Lewinsky is intending to launch a campaign first as some sort of challenge to both Clintons. We know that she has acknowledged that the President took advantage of her during the scandal. This could be a more subtle way of getting back at him, while also furthering her own political aspirations.” Ms. Lewinsky has lived a rocky life after the White House scandal. She has been unable to find solid employment and has moved several times due to her notoriety. With few options left, championing a controversial topic and a potential career in politics do appear to be a way for her to turn her life around. “A real shocker would be if Ms. Lewinsky shows up as either a GOP or Tea Party candidate,” added Prof. Hansen. “One could only imagine the media circus surrounding a 2016 Election with Hillary Clinton vs. Monica Lewinsky as the main attraction. Considering the history between those two, I definitely foresee this being a story that even the most jaded American voter would take interest in. I think something like this would be what is best for business right now.”