Sarah Palin Volunteers to Fight ‘Labian Extremists’
Swiftly reacting to yesterday's death of the U.S. Ambassador to Libya, former Republican Vice-Presidential candidate Sarah Palin has offered to fly to "Labia" personally and shoot the "America-hating Labian Moslem Extremists." Ambassador J. Christopher Stevens was killed yesterday during an attack on America's consulate in Benghazi, the principal city in the eastern half of Libya. It is the first time since 1979 that an American ambassador has been killed in the line of duty. Protesters also attempted to storm the American embassy in neighboring Egypt. The turmoil was said to be triggered by a Youtube video produced in America they found offensive. Initial reports stated that only minor damage was done, and the White House responded with nothing more than a mild press release chiding the demonstrators. However, as the deadly scale of the assaults on what is technically American soil became known, this timidity incensed American conservatives. Palin took to Facebook to vent her outrage: "Our nation is under attack, and our "President" Barack HUSSEIN Obama is issuing press releases? Do you think words are enough to defend us?  When are we sending in the troops? When are we gonna fight back against these monsters?" "Well if no one is gonna fight for our country, I will! Barack Obama send me over to Labia and I'll teach those Moslems a thing or two about messing with the good old U. S. of A." "You can parachute me right into the heart of Labia. I'll dig in and take on all comers. I'll penetrate deep into enemy territory and leave those Labians screaming louder than they've ever screamed before." "Admittedly I've never been inside Labia before. But I've seen a lot of graphic movies about the Labian threat on cable. And I'm sure I'll figure out what to do once I'm inside." "President Obama, I stand ready to fight. What are YOU doing?" The White House says it has no comment on Palin's post, though press secretary Jay Carney did say "It pretty much speaks for itself."