Sarah Palin Sends Condolences to Scottish ‘Leader’ Mel Gibson
Sarah Palin has sent her condolences to “Braveheart” actor Mel Gibson in response to the defeat in the vote on Scotland’s independence. In a letter addressed to Gibson, which was also posted on her Facebook page, Palin congratulated Gibson on his brave attempt to lead Scotland to independence. “Dear Mel Gibson: I heard the news about your country Scotland today, so I just wanted to say sorry that your fellow Scotlandites rejected freedom in favor of remaining with those nasty Brits,” the former Alaska governor and vice presidential candidate wrote. “I saw your movie ‘Braveheart’ years ago and it really inspired me to support Scotland’s independence. Unfortunately my VCR gave out during the final battle and chewed up the video tape, but I assume you won it.” Palin went on to praise Gibson for using the movie to inspire the Scots to have a peaceful election and “elect your very own king.” “As an American, I can’t tell you how great it is to get your independence from England. It’s definitely the best thing we ever did,” she wrote. “While I certainly don’t share your opinions about our Jewish friends, I certainly admire anyone who fights for freedom – especially since most of your fellow Hollywood actors seem to hate freedom – so I wish you the best of luck. “If you Scotlandites need any advice about how to run your country, whether it’s writing a constitution, buying weapons, keeping your government small, or protecting your freedom from terrorists – at least you still get to keep those nuclear weapons – your American friends here ‘across the pond’ are always ready to help.” New York-born Australian actor Gibson directed and starred in the 1995 hit movie “Braveheart” in which he portrays William Wallace, the 14th century hero and leader in the Scottish rebellions against the king of England. While “Braveheart” was a box office success and Oscar winner, it was criticized for its inaccuracies about Wallace and Scotland’s history. However, Gibson has since earned widespread acclaim and praise from Scottish people for his accurate portrayal of a drunken, bigoted lout.