Distraught Bono “I’m Ending U2, I’m Sorry”
“I thought an apology would be enough but it apparently was not enough,” said a tearful Bono over a phone interview from his compound south of Dublin, Ireland. “The abuse myself and my band mates have received over the past month and a half is too much for us to bear. We’ve decided as a group that ‘Songs Of Innocence’ will be the final U2 album. I’m ending U2, I’m sorry. I can’t speak for the other members and their future endeavors, but I plan to devote my time even more completely to my philanthropic work.” Bono continued by saying that he “wished the band (U2) didn’t have to end this way. We had a really great run but I completely miscalculated the negative impact of the iTunes publicity move. I accept full blame and responsibility for destroying all of the good will this band has worked hard to earn over the past 38 years.” Many music critics, such as Claude Webb of the music blog Musicella, have taken Bono’s news in stride. “U2 has had a good run,” agreed Webb. “Bono is definitely correct there. I can also see how all of the negative publicity and fan backlash has taken its toll on a group that has almost been around forty years. Bono has a lot on his plate and I think he’ll be fine with one less thing to worry about. The rest of the band are talented musicians in their own right and I’m sure they will land on their feet as well.” Critic Stan Huber with the blog Musicreads, disagrees. “I was done with the band when their new album showed up in my iTunes library without my consent,” explained Huber. “That’s just beyond the pale for me. The amount of arrogance it took for Bono to do that is just incredible. And, let’s be real, the rest of that band had little to do with that decision and now they are left to suffer because he flew too close to the sun. It is very unfortunate that now music historians will look back shamefully at what used to be a great band.” Apple responded to criticisms from iTunes consumers by putting up a website that allow users to remove the ‘Songs Of Innocence’ album from their library. Apple has had no comment on the reported dissolution of U2.