Ted Cruz Suggests “Nuking Israel” During Interview
It’s common for politicians to reverse their positions when faced with new tides in public opinion. But on Friday, Texas Senator and 2016 GOP Presidential hopeful Ted Cruz may have taken things too far — way too far — after suggesting the United States involve itself militarily in the Israel/ Palestine conflict… and that nuclear weapons should be “on the table.” “Israel have proven themselves time and time again to be needlessly hostile,” Cruz said during an interview with Fox News Friday morning. “They’re the aggressors in this conflict, and to see Obama throwing all of this support Israel’s way, it’s sickening, really sickening. We shouldn’t be throwing support at Israel. We should be throwing bullets.” Fox News’ Elisabeth Hasselbeck asked Cruz if he was suggesting a “physical war” with Israel, to which Cruz quickly answered affirmatively. “Yes. Absolutely. They won’t sit down like grown-ups and discuss this rationally. I think war should be the last tool you reach for in the shed, but right now it’s looking like the only one. I think the only way we’re ever going to end this conflict is by nuking Israel. Maybe not literally, but, you know, everything should be on the table right now.” Later in the interview, Cruz had calmed down considerably. “I don’t think we’ve seen real diplomacy in action out of this administration. Obama just sits there with his hands between his knees, hoping it’ll resolve itself. It won’t resolve itself. If Israel wants to be our ally, they should try acting like it, and that means giving up some things. And if they won’t discuss that, you know, rationally, then maybe it’s time for some sanctions.” Cruz’s shift toward supporting a Palestinian State is a sharp contrast from his statements earlier this week, in which he strongly supported Israel during a Christian event in the nation’s capital. But Cruz was heckled off the stage during that event, prompting many to speculate that Cruz is simply trying to follow popular political trends. “I don’t think there’s anything more to this than [Cruz] making a political move, because he thinks that’s where his base is,” says White House Press Secretary Josh Earnest. “He thought his crowd would be behind Israel. When he finds out they aren’t, he’s suddenly pro-Palestine, maybe even pro-Hamas. It’s all just posturing for 2016. I don’t think he’d really nuke Israel or anything, or at least I hope he wouldn’t.”