Play-Doh Penis Could Shape A New Generation
A Hasbro spokesperson spoke at length today about he controversial ‘extruder tool’ that was included in popular selling ‘Cake Mountain’ product.  The intent of the Play-Doh tool, according to the company, was to help make really cool frosting decorations on top of a Play-Doh cake.  Angered parents aren’t buying it. “This is the most irresponsible act I have witnessed in my lifetime,” says 41 year old livid mother Jackie Rosales.  “We pulled out the extruder tool together and my 7 year old daughter asked me if ‘the penis was supposed to be a surprise inside the cake.’  Was there not one person at this massive corporation that said, ‘Hey, doesn’t that thing kind of look a little too much like a penis?’  Jesus!  First of all, I was not ready to have a penis conversation with my young daughter.  She already apparently knows more than I realized.  My bigger concern is for this generation of kids that Hasbro has unknowingly touched in a profound and confounding way.  In my generation they all told us that as long as you use your penis in a swimming pool that you couldn’t get a girl pregnant.  To this day no one knows for sure if that is accurate or not.  Now this generation has to face the Play-Doh penis.  I’ve already heard kids in the neighborhood talking about how you can mold a Play-Doh penis to experiment on girls and not get them pregnant.  Good God!  We don’t know yet if that’s true or not.  Could we have Play-Doh babies running around in this world?  Oh, I can just see it now.  Underground Play-Doh sex parties, experimental fellatio in a dark closet on a blue Play-Doh penis, black market Play-Doh tools that make vaginas and other things I cannot even mention without having a nervous breakdown.  I don’t know where to go from here.  But I do know that Hasbro Corporation should face stiff penalties for their reckless behavior.” Hasbro has genuinely been contrite and offered to replace the extruder tool at no cost to any consumer.  It is not a mandatory exchange and the Play-Doh giant stands behind their product, saying they encourage everyone that bought an extruder tool with the Cake Mountain kit to ‘just have some fun with it.’ With all the immediate fervor over the Play-Doh penis, do date only around 3% of the extruder tools have been returned to the manufacturer.    