Warning: Solar-Powered Voting Machines Are Switching Republican Votes to Democratic Ones
Before you head out to your local polling station to vote in today’s midterms, make sure you take a moment to ask election officials whether the machines are solar powered or not… especially if you plan on voting for Republicans. Because many are claiming that the solar powered machines are mysteriously swapping out votes for Republican candidates in favor of their Democrat counterparts. Numerous early voters, as well as local and State officials across the country, are reporting today that voting machines powered by solar energy have been turning republican votes into democrat votes, while leaving democrat votes alone. And thanks to the Obama administration’s green energy initiatives, these faulty machines are highly prevalent, appearing in almost every State in the nation. The voting machines in question are powered by portable solar panels built by First Solar, an Arizona company that has taken over $3 billion in handouts from the Obama administration over the years. And as a part of Obama’s “executive actions to advance solar deployment and energy efficiency,” First Solar was given a no-bid contract in July of this year to modify those voting machines for compatibility with their solar panels. Those modifications were reportedly completed in early October. Today, those machines have been deployed in all but three States. Only New Hampshire, Rhode Island, and Alaska aren’t using them. First Solar says their modified solar energy machines are being used in roughly 40% of all polling stations nationwide… meaning Democrats might have a seriously unfair election day advantage. And those election officials who want to stop voting from taking place in their stations are being told by State and Federal officials that they must soldier on, despite the flaws. “I’ve been trying to get our polling station closed, but they’re not letting us,” says Martha Logan, a local election official in Murfreesboro, Tennessee. “I’ve been on the phone all day with the State’s election commission, trying to tell them what’s going on, and meanwhile I’ve got angry voters in my other ear, but they just keep telling me that there [isn’t] anything we can do but keep letting people vote. I don’t know what to tell these poor people, and I don’t even know if this’ll get fixed, either.” Many voters are outraged by the technical issue. “It’s [expletive] ridiculous. Totally [expletive] ridiculous,” says George Riley, 48, of Richmond, Virginia. “I voted Republican straight down the board. I’m an American, not a Russian. I don’t vote for communists. But this machine here, it switched every single one of my [expletive] votes. All of them. It’s like I didn’t even have to show up today. Why did I even leave the house? I could be watching TV, and instead I’m sitting here watching that [expletive] Obama steal my [expletive] votes. What the [expletive] country is this, anyway?” No one from the White House or from First Solar would comment on this story or answer our numerous requests for an interview. \n \n