Miley Cyrus Replaced By Double In 2010
While on the surface, the theory could be dismissed as a crackpot conspiracy, if one looks at the evidence being presented the idea becomes more solid. Internet researcher and author, David Henderson, is an expert of the theory surrounding the alleged replacement of The Beatles’ Paul McCartney in 1966. Henderson says, “Prior to 2010, Ms. Cyrus embraced the character of Hannah Montana and was a great role model for children. Towards the end of 2010, the Hannah Montana show started to receive criticism for being a bad influence for kids based on Cyrus’s behavior. By the end of 2010, Cyrus allegedly had nude photos leaked on the internet and suffered controversy for being caught allegedly smoking Salvia divinorum. Anyone paying attention to pop culture knows how Cyrus’s image has devolved even further since then.”\n Henderson theorizes that at some point in “late September through early November 2010″ the actress potentially befell some sort of tragedy. “I don’t think it was foul play or a drug overdose. Much like McCartney, I think it was just an accident of some sort. The powers that be that controlled Hannah Montana and Cyrus’s career didn’t want to lose out on the cash cow they had been milking. The “McCartney switch” is an unspoken thing in the entertainment industry that has been used to varying degrees of success in the past. I believe Cyrus’s handlers likely had the best intentions in mind, but the actress they selected to continue on the Hannah Montana legacy took things down a darker path that they did not anticipate.” Henderson is currently writing a book on this alleged conspiracy called “I Came In Like A Wrecking Ball: The True Story Of The False Miley Cyrus”. Cyrus’s management has not responded to this rumor in any official capacity. Also comments about this conspiracy to Cyrus’s verified Facebook page have so far been ignored. As it took Paul McCartney a few decades to even joke about the allegations that he is an imposter, the lack of response from Cyrus or her management is not surprising.