Exclusive: White House Forcing American Families To Adopt Illegals
Jason and Amy Baxter of Plano, Texas thought they were living the American dream. Jason owns a successful plumbing business, which has been in his family for three generations. Amy is a published author working on her third self-help book. Between them, they bring in approximately $97,000 per year, enough that they live comfortably with their two daughters, Martha and Ellen. But according to the Obama administration, their success needs to carry a price. On Wednesday, November 5th, the Baxter family was visited by twelve government agents belonging to Immigration and Customs Enforcement, or “ICE.” The ICE agents came bearing a federal warrant to search the premises, claiming they had reports that the Baxters were harboring illegal alien fugitives. After searching all the rooms of their home, and then rummaging through their personal belongings, ICE began questioning the family, including their youngest daughter, age five. But the questions had less to do with illegal immigration, and were allegedly focused entirely on asking the Baxters about their family’s finances. And after a lengthy four hours of questioning, Special Agent Lt. Paul Horner of ICE told the Baxter family that on December 1st, they’d be adopting one Miguel Magaña, an eleven year-old Belizean boy who has been living in an American holding facility in Texas since April of this year. “They told us we `had’ to adopt this boy. This kid we’ve never met and never heard of,” says Amy Baxter. “They said if we refuse, they’ll come to our home with a warrant to search the premises every week, and they’ll shut down my husband’s business while searching the records of every one of his employees, and that would take months.” “They said it was the `patriotic thing to do,’ accepting this illegal alien into our home,” Jason Baxter added. “But we’re not getting a say in any of this, not at all. This kid is getting forced on us, right during the holidays, and if I refuse, all of my employees are going to suffer. It just isn’t right.” The Baxter family isn’t alone, either. According to two anonymous sources within ICE, as many as 140 families in Texas, New Mexico, and Nevada have been forced by the federal agency to adopt a total of 267 illegal immigrant children, who snuck across the border without their parents. And this, those agents claim, is the Obama administration’s solution to dealing with underage illegals. “We’ve been doing this for a few months now, and it comes straight down from the top,” one ICE agent claims. “It’s an executive order, signed by Obama. He’s telling ICE that we need to assimilate these children into this country however we can, because we can’t just send them home unaccompanied by adults, and we can’t force them on State agencies without violating the tenth amendment.” The other agent explained how ICE picks the families. “We search all sorts of records and profile these families on a case-by-case basis. They need to earn around $80,000 per year, per kid, and they need to budget well and be financially sound. They also need to clear stringent background checks, and they need to have kids of their own, in public schools, so we can see how their records look, too. We want these kids going into good homes.” The Baxter family has hired lawyers and hopes to thwart ICE from forcing the young boy on them. But that lawyer, Barbara Fitch, says the family is facing an uphill battle. “This is a tricky case, because technically, the Obama administration and ICE officials aren’t actually breaking any laws here,” says Fitch. “The Third Amendment doesn’t really apply here, because these aren’t American citizens, and they aren’t a military force. There’s nothing in the law, at the State or Federal level, that prohibits ICE from forcing a well-off American family into adopting an illegal with no legal guardian.” Any legal action the Baxters can take won’t come soon enough, though. “This boy is coming here on December 1st. We’re Christians. It’s not like we can just turn this poor kid away at the door,” says Jason Baxter. “We’ll take him into our home and treat him like a proper guest, and raise him like we would our own. But we’re going to fight this, too. Just because we’re well-off and raise good kids doesn’t mean we should have other peoples’ kids forced on us. If this is Obama’s America, I want know part of it.”