James Cameron Calls Zero Dark Thirty ‘Absolutely Terrible’
James Cameron has waded into the debate surrounding the film Zero Dark Thirty, calling the critically-acclaimed docudrama "terrible" and "an amateur attempt at film-making." After seeing the movie at a special AFI screening this past weekend, the Oscar-winning director of Avatar, Titanic and Terminator immediately trashed it to local reporters covering the event.  "Wow that was a real piece of s**t," Cameron told the press corps. "I haven't seen anything that f**king terrible since Schindler's List. And at least that had some decent tits to look at." "I mean there's not a single alien or robot in the whole movie. How am I supposed to take a film like that seriously? Everything is so 'believable.' Where are the animatronic warrior princes? 3D battle scenes in the clouds? Laser guns? I didn't see a single f**king laser gun!" King of the World Despite Cameron's opinion, Zero Dark Thirty - which chronicles the CIA's decade-long hunt for Osama Bin Laden - has received rave reviews from most critics. However, it has also come under fire for suggesting that Bin Laden's capture was made possible by information gained through torture. The controversy has reached all the way to the U.S. Senate, where hearings will be held regarding possible access to classified material granted to screenwriter Mark Boal regarding the CIA's use of torture. For Cameron, however, the only thing torturous about the film was being forced to see it all the way though: "How hard would it have been to make the Bin Laden character an android from another planet sent to destroy Earth? I mean honestly, think a little before you start shooting guys." "And this CIA agent Maya. It never explains how she knows so much about everything. Couldn't she be telepathic or something? And why didn't she fall in love with one of the terrorists? Forbiden love is what makes a movie a movie folks." Cameron says he resisted the urge to walk out of the film, because as a director he knows how much work must have went into making it. But he also says that the creators of this "bomb" shouldn't be allowed around movie cameras. "I don't know who directed this garbage, but whoever it was needs to go back to film school. They're not ready for primetime."