Man Arrested for Anti-Obama Facebook Post
A Stillwater, Minnesota man was arrested on Monday evening, charged with threatening the life of President Barack Obama in a Facebook post he says he made in jest. The US Attorneys’ office said Tuesday morning that 39-year-old Eric Arthur Blair was charged in a criminal complaint. Investigators monitoring Blair’s Facebook account flagged posts in which he discussed his intent to “hogtie,” “slaughter,” and “smoke” Obama. Blair runs his family’s hog farm in nearby St. Paul and insisted that the message was a joke. The US attorney’s office began monitoring Blair’s Facebook page last January after racially insensitive comments and illustrations he posted were flagged by Facebook and forwarded to the US Secret Service. Images from Blair’s now deactivated page included several in which the President and Mrs. Obama appeared dressed in jungle attire while hosting a state dinner. Mrs. Obama was shown offering slices of watermelon to world leaders, also caricatured. German Chancellor Angela Merkel appeared in one of the illustrations wearing a nazi armband. Sgt. Edward Bell of the Benton County Sheriff’s Office accompanied Secret Service members to the Blair farm. “By law, we are required to investigate all threats or perceived threats,” said Bell. “Officers were denied entrance onto the suspect’s property.” Blair was placed under arrest and taken into custody, charged with intent to inflict bodily harm upon the President and resisting arrest. His computer and an external hard drive were confiscated. The secret service responds to thousands of threats against the President each year. Few result in arrest or prosecution. No no such luck for Blair, an individual exercising his freedom of speech and freedom of expression rights. Shouldn’t the Secret Service, with its tarnished image, be stopping knife-wielding fence jumpers who actually enter the White House, rather than waste taxpayers’ money by investigating innocent Facebook posts meant to provide humor? Blair could spend up to 3 months behind bars for resisting arrest, although his attorney is asking for a swift dismissal of all charges, stressing that his client’s comments, while inappropriate, demonstrated no intent to harm the President or members of his family.