Bruce Jenner Facing Vehicular Manslaughter In Deadly PCH Crash?
Former Olympian and reality TV star Bruce Jenner was involved in a fatal car crash on the Pacific Coast Highway in Malibu, CA around noon on Saturday, February 7, 2015. While he survived the crash unharmed, a female in the vehicle Jenner’s Cadillac Escalade crashed into was reported dead-on-scene. While Jenner claims the crash was a result of him being chased by paparazzi, initial reports state otherwise. Jenner’s claim is believable, as he has been the target of media attention for months, from divorcing Kris Jenner earlier this year, to announcing that he would be making a gender transformation to become female. However, new information states that Jenner’s paparazzi claims are false, and that he was using his cell phone during the crash. Allegedly, reports also claim that in true Kardashian spirit, he was taking a selfie behind the wheel. According to unnamed sources, California state police have turned the focus of the crash from just being a fatal accident to an active vehicular manslaughter investigation. At this point, police have issued a warrant to preview the contents of Jenner’s cell phone, and officials believe they are now looking at pursuing charges for vehicular manslaughter. The victim, 69 year old Kim Howe, who was recently widowed, was a resident of Calabasas (a private, gated Los Angeles community). Robert, Courtney, and Khloe Kardashian also live in the Calabasas community, and were neighbors with Howe. There were 7 other injuries in connection with the multi-car crash; two adults and five children, including a 10 month old baby. In the state of California, it is illegal to use a cell phone while driving. What can’t be figured out, is why Jenner was taking photos of himself, instead of driving, when clearly he did not want paparazzi to be taking photos of him. While Jenner submitted to a field sobriety test with the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department, he failed to note whether or not he was using his cellular device at the time of the crash. Photos taken by paparazzi before the crash confirm that Jenner was holding an object in his left hand, just above the steering wheel at the time of the crash. The position of his arm and hand are conclusive with the position one would use to take selfies, or even text, with their cell phone. Jenner was taken from the scene of the crash by LA County Sheriffs, where he was transported for further questioning. The crash shut the Pacific Coast Highway down for more than 9 hours on Saturday. If charged with vehicular manslaughter, Jenner could be facing felony charges, 2-6 years in state prison, and at least a fine of $10,000. It’s safe to say that 2015 just is not Bruce Jenner’s year.