George R. R. Martin To Release 100 Copies of Latest Book
The literary world is abuzz with the news of author George R.R. Martin’s latest surprising move. Sources close to Martin revealed that the author plans to release early copies of his much anticipated novel, The Winds of Winter, to 100 lucky fans. The Winds of Winter, the sixth installment in Martin’s wildly popular high fantasy series, a Song of Ice and Fire, is not expected to hit shelves until 2016. The author is notorious for lengthy delays between book releases, and his fans have a history of ill-concealed impatience; but it would seem that Mr. Martin has been goaded into action at long last. The as yet unfinished manuscript will be wirelessly delivered to 100 very lucky fans sometime this June. No one is yet aware of the identity of the favored few, nor were any known sources privy to the process by which these fans were chosen. It is thought that the hundred recipients will likely have been selected from among the author’s plethora of fan clubs. When asked why George R.R. Martin is considering such a unique maneuver, one of his publicists said that the author is “sick unto death of all the whining”. His followers, at times, have become almost violent in their demands for more tales from the Seven Kingdoms. It is hoped by Martin’s team that this tactic will at least soothe the most aggressive of the bunch; rather like tossing one red, juicy steak to a massive pack of hungry lions. Despite Martin’s annoyance, it would seem that these fans will also serve as honorary proof readers. After reviewing the first draft of the novel, they will be able to offer their advice and input before the book goes to print. This way, if the “proof readers” are upset with the fate of a character, or greatly dislike parts of the plot, changes can be made before it’s too late. Chances are, if these specially selected fans aren’t satisfied with the product, the majority of Martin’s devotees won’t be, either. Many fans, mainly those in the unlucky majority who will not receive a copy of the first draft, have expressed their hopes of this manuscript being leaked on the internet. Unfortunately, there is no such possibility. Along with the copy of the unfinished novel comes a lengthy non-disclosure agreement which will be enforced to the fullest extent of the law. The vast majority of Martin’s readers will have to wait until next year to find out what happens to beloved characters like Jon Snow, Sam Tarley and Danaerys Targaryen. For those fans who just can’t wait, there is a silver lining: it would seem that the popular HBO series, Game of Thrones, is on track to outpace its written counterpart by its next season.