Obama Fines ABC For Broadcasting Charlie Brown Christmas; FCC Cites Christian Bias
The Federal Communications Commission, acting on an executive order issued by Barack Obama, fined the ABC television network for airing A Charlie Brown Christmas, because several overtly Christian references were found to be “potentially damaging, offensive and exclusionary” to non-Christians, according to a Commission spokesperson. The FCC’s Board of Directors – all Obama appointees –  quietly inserted the penalty notification as an addendum to last week’s $1.1 trillion spending bill vote in Congress. The 1965 animated holiday favorite came under fire from Islamic and other non-Christian organizations that petitioned for equal network time to air alternative religious programming or none at all during the traditional holiday season. The original request calling for “affirmatively active non-Christian and/or non-denominational programming” was submitted to the network in 2009, with no movement taking place until this year. Speaking on behalf of the FCC, legal counsel Khalid Soetoro wrote: In 2010, a list of alternative programming was submitted to the network by the Commission including Ahmal and the Night Visitors, and Ramadan Tales, a well-known Middle-Eastern animated children’s holiday special. The stage version of the Christmas story has also come under fire, igniting constitutional debate over a 2012 elementary school production in Little Rock, Arkansas. “The Charlie Brown fable is not the story of my culture, nor does it reflect the experience of my parents or my children,” said Soetoro. “As universal as Charlie Brown appears on the surface, it actually is exclusionary for a major, growing segment of the world’s population. No action was taken by the network, so they effectively forced our hand. We thank the President for his assistance and executive wisdom,” added Soetoro. The special will still be available for online purchase on DVD, or by subscription services such as Netflix. An online streaming option for home viewers has also been restricted until equivalent programming options are offered by streaming sites. Violation of Obama’s executive order will result in site shutdowns and additional Federal Trade Commission (FTC) fines levied against internet service providers (ISPs). Former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin took to Facebook to express her reaction: “The further erodation of our Christian family values practiced by Obama and his cronies is evident now more than ever during our most religiously observed time of the year. Obama’s advancing de-Christianization agenda against America and her allies becomes bolder with each passing year and executive appointment, while his attacks on our cherished cultural and entertainment media venue outlets continue to arrogantly erode our core beliefs for generations to come.” The Disney Company, parent of the ABC Television Network, will reportedly file a motion to appeal.