Liberals And Conservatives Unite To Denounce ‘Sexual Predator’ Lena Dunham
Lena Dunham’s book, ‘Not That Kind Of Girl’, has caused quite a stir amongst the internet community, splintering the feminist movement, and even leaving her own fans shaking their heads in abject disgust. Conservative site, National Review, initially brought into question several passages of Dunham’s book in which she describes what any sane person would consider to be sexual abuse. Outlined over a ten year span, Dunham groomed her younger sister, Grace, describing herself as a “sexual predator” while bribing the sibling with candy for sexual favors. Initially Dunham attempted to deflect the blame onto the political right, tweeting, “The right wing news story that I molested my little sister isn’t just LOL- it’s really fucking upsetting and disgusting.” This political-baiting did not work in the actresses’ favor however. While uber-liberal sites such as Huffington post attempted to excuse the reprehensible actions of the 28-year-old star of HBO’s ‘Girls’, commenters from the left immediately swooped in to denounce Dunham and her vile claims. In an unprecedented show of unity, both groups came together to collectively boycott Dunham and the acts she gleefully described committing against her vulnerable younger sister. After going into a “rage spiral” (whatever that’s supposed to mean) and playing PR war games, because omg republicans, Lena issued a half-hearted apology while still maintaining the stance of it’s not me who has the problem, it’s the rest of the world who is persecuting her.        Her emotionally damaged younger sister who now identifies as “queer” and is likely suffering from some form of Stockholm syndrome. She  appears to support her abuser, and at least on the outside claims to be okay with the years of sexual torment she endured at the hands of Lena. It is in this journalists opinion that Lena should be rightfully alienated from Hollywood and have her HBO show canceled. There is no room, not even in the far left, for child sex abuse apologists. No matter how “quirky” or innocent they try to paint their crimes.