Ann Coulter Calls for Tax on Grape Soda
Conservative commentator Ann Coulter stoked controversy today by calling on states to impose a special tax on grape-flavored soda. In an interview on Fox News this morning, Coulter argued the levy could replace a proposed tax on interstate e-commerce, which Congress is currently debating. In to discuss her new book Never Trust a Liberal Over 3, the conversation soon migrated to fiscal policy as Coulter blasted Republicans for supporting a plan which would allow states to tax online sales outside their borders. Host Meghan Kelly, however, challenged her reasoning. "As more and more commerce is now online, sales tax receipts at local retailers are falling," she proffered. "How are these states supposed to replace that lost tax revenue? After all, teachers, firefighters and police all cost money." "First, I don't think we should be raising taxes on anything," Coulter replied. "If government needs to balance its books than it can cut spending on unnecessary items like welfare, education and food stamps. "Secondly, if the states are really desperate for money, what about a tax on grape soda?  I mean, let's be honest: most of the government's money is spent on black people anyway, it'd be nice to see them contribute a little on revenue side for a change." The Marketplace Fairness Act would allow individual states to tax their citizens on purchases made online from retailers based out of state. Brick-and-mortar retailers like Best Buy and Wal-Mart support the legislation, saying it would level the playing field with e-commerce giants like eBay and Amazon. Although the bill enjoys wide bipartisan support, opposition has emerged from the Tea Party wing of the Republican Party which argues that it is tantamount to a tax increase. Coulter's proposed solution, however, is bound to rankle many because grape soda is a beverage stereotypically associated with the African-American community. Never one to shy away from controversy, however, Coulter doubled down on her assertions. "Why not tax fried chicken and rap music too?" she asked. "And what about Newports and Escalades? Too bad crack cocaine's illegal, or we could tax that too. It's time black people start pulling their weight around here. Even since they decided to come to America, it's just been nothing but non-stop giveaways." "Ann, don't you think these suggestions are at the very least racially insensitive?" Kelly interjected, hoping to regain control of the conversation. "Oh! What, because I want to tax things that only black people use, suddenly that makes me a racist?" Coulter protested. "We have plenty of whites-only taxes already. What do you think the capital gains tax is? Nothing but a shakedown of whitey. Might as well call it the cracker tax."