Christmas Changing Name To Bigfootmas?  Scientists Explain Why
National Geographic writer and photographer, Bradley Sumptner, brought along a team of experts with him to examine a find unlike any other.  On the edge of the Mojave Desert, Sumptner and a few colleagues found a set of footprints in the sand that were equivalent to the size of at least 6 men.  How in the world is anyone going to be able to explain this? “That’s what I was thinking,” explains Sumptner.  “Initially, I just figured we would add this to the greatest unsolved mysteries in the history of the world.  We brought in 81 experts from their field of studies.  Everything from paleontologists to sand castle makers.  After we gathered all of the data, there was only one explanation that made any sense.  The only sensible conclusion that we could make is that these footprints are those of Jesus and Bigfoot.  That’s right, we are suggesting that they are the same entity.  We have enough circumstantial evidence from Bigfoot and enough from the Bible and our Christian experts to say that it is a 90% certainty that Bigfoot and Jesus are the same person.  We further believe that when Jesus comes to visit Earth, He and Bigfoot fuse together and take a form similar to a centaur.  Jesus (with the huge feet) is the bottom half and Bigfoot is the top half.  The width, impression, and depth of these prints would fall directly in line with what we know and the few things we have to guess about.  It’s the most fascinating thing that I’ve ever captured.  After validating all of this information, government officials plan to set traps so that we can potentially, and safely, capture the new Bigfoot Jesus Christ character.” Will the name of Christmas have to be changed to Bigfootmas?  Will we see a new sect of religious fanatics or will people be scared by this revelation and move away from Christianity altogether?  There are so many unanswered questions to be addressed given these groundbreaking findings.  One thing is for sure.  This new Bigfoot Jesus is far larger and more powerful than any God fearing person could have ever imagined.  There is a famous quote by Sri Sathya Sai Baba which states, “You can find the footprints of God wherever there is beauty, virtue, humility, justice, truth, love and peace.”  If we may be so bold, we’re going to add on to that quote based on the new information uncovered.  “You will also find the footprints of Bigfoot Jesus right there in the sands of the Mojave Desert.”  We’ll add to it again once we are able to capture the beast and ask more about what this all really means in the complexities of our lives. The ‘virtue,’ ‘truth,’ and ‘peace’ stuff is purely all just speculation at this point.