Biden Calls Obama ‘Barack Ebola’ During Speech to Rocket Scientists
An early Christmas gift was given to Republicans yesterday, when Joe Biden inadvertently referred to the President as ‘Barack Ebola’ during a speech before a group of aerospace engineers at NASA’s Washington headquarters. Biden, who immediately realized and corrected his mistake, had to laugh along with the 200 engineers who had gathered to hear his speech commemorating the 53rd anniversary of the Saturn launch vehicle’s first test flight. Saturn rockets were used for Project Apollo moon flight missions. Biden has made his share of gaffes while in office but this one stings the President especially deeply at a time when serious questions exist about his handling of the Ebola crisis. The majority of nationwide polls indicate a lack of confidence shared by Americans toward Obama’s management of the situation, with many Republicans calling on the President to institute a travel ban for Western African countries reporting confirmed Ebola outbreaks. House Speaker John Boehner led the charge last week in a tweet calling on Obama to seriously consider travel restrictions. Former Alaska Governor and Biden debate opponent Sarah Palin took to Facebook to jab the Vice President: “There goes ol’ Joe again, speaking his mind out loud and proud in front of, wait for it … a group of goshdarn aerospace engineers! You know, it doesn’t take a rocket scientist to figure out that he made a kind of Freudian slip there but the serious fact of the matter is we’re all thinking the same thing, and the tragic legacy that Obama will leave to us and our children is this dreaded disease and the inaction taken by the [cough cough] Commander-In-Chief [cough cough].” A spokesperson for the Vice President remarked, “the Ebola crisis is no laughing matter and certainly should not be used to score political points with an immature, tasteless joke.” The Committee for Oversight and Government Reform says that coordination of a multi-agency response is the most effective strategy in dealing with the disease. A full committee hearing took place on October 24, detailing specific organizational efforts. Biden remarked to reporters as he exited the building, “I think I’d better stay out of the West Wing for a couple of days.”