Nick Gordon is desperate to visit Bobbi Kristina
A feud has erupted between Bobby Brown and Nick Gordon over whether Gordon could visit Brown's daughter in the hospital.  Up to now, Gordon has been able to charm Bobbi Kristina's female relatives, but his dashing charisma has not worked on Bobby Brown. \"With so many beautiful women out in the world why is Nick Gordon fussing over my daughter?\" One of Gordon's relatives informed News of the World that Gordon is desperate for Bobbi Kristina's 20 million dollar trust fund left to her by her mother. \"Without Bobbi, Nick will end up being homeless and penniless,\" said the anonymous relative.  Gordon's advisers have informed him that he needs to get close to Bobbi Kristina in order for her to sign over her entire estate to him in a last will and testament that has been specially drafted for Gordon. A close friend of Gordon has told TMB news that Gordon is planning an alimony suit in Georgia claiming he was married to Bobbi Kristina and the fact that she publicly announced their marriage a year ago is evidence to that fact. Georgia doesn't have common law marriage laws anymore, but Gordon's lawyers may try to bring a suit claiming marriage fraud on behalf of Gordon who is saying Bobbi Kristina promised him the papers were filed in the courts and he hasn't worked because of her. The fight that Bobbi Kristina and Gordon were having before her untimely accident was over Gordon cheating with several different escort ladies hired by Gordon's friend.  Nick Gordon, was offered an opportunity to potentially visit her if he agreed not to bring any legal paperwork for Bobbi Kristina to sign.  In an unromantic move, Gordon has sought the advice of lawyers.  Gordon has repeatedly offered to discuss the issue privately with Brown, rather than through lawyers.  At the moment, Gordon is living in Bobbi Kristina's luxury penthouse, but the refrigerator is without food because he can't get access to her credit cards.  Gordon is currently visiting the local homeless shelter for the prospect of free meals.  Bobbi Kristina became the sole inheritor of her mother's estate when she died in 2012, and shortly thereafter, she and Gordon went public with their romantic relationship. Brown said his daughter isn't and never has been married to Gordon.