Obama Socialist Youth Group Photo Discovered in Hawaii
A 1975 photograph showing Barack Obama giving a Nazi-style salute alongside a group of socialist youths has been found near Obama’s childhood home in Hawaii. Buried deep within in the archives of Oahu’s Makiki Community Library, the incriminating snapshot was taken at Camp Unity, a socialist youth hostel where Obama’s mother worked as treasurer. Obama is shown in the back of a group of about 25 camp members saluting Hitler-style, while singing the Socialist Party anthem “The Internationale.” The song calls for social change through revolution, as revealed in the line: Let’s claim the earth henceforth for brothers, and in the following verse: Then come comrades rally/ And the last fight let us face/ The Internationale/ Unites the human race. During a speech in Austin, TX, Senator Ted Cruz (R-Texas) remarked, “Stunned. I’m not surprised, just stunned. The era of Obama lawlessness is over.” Former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin responded with both barrels; first on Facebook calling the photograph a “goldmine for those of us who knew that the truth from the light of day would eventually shine on Obama’s lies.” She then took to Twitter and offered a one-word tweet: “Gotcha!” a reference to television host Katie Couric’s “gotcha journalism” ambush interview style. An archivist discovered the photograph in a library storage room with the notation Camp Unity Glee Club Photo, 1975, with “Barry Obama” listed as a member of the socialist youth chorus. Camp Unity was investigated for un-American activities in the 1970s, and eventually disbanded after an investigation by the IRS revealed federal income tax irregularities. As expected, Obama apologists are denying the photograph’s authenticity. Democratic National Committee Chair Debbie Wasserman Schultz called it “a convenient ploy to divert attention from the Republicans’ do-nothing performance in Congress.” Republican National Committee Chair Reince Priebus said “This ends the Democratic Party in America – and it’s a fitting end to an administration which has led America down the wrong path.” Whether the revelation will do more to speed up the call for Obama’s impeachment is up for question. “Why waste more of the taxpayers’ money,” said Preibus. “The damage he has done to himself and his Democratic party will play itself out, and our national nightmare soon will be over.” National Report will provide updates to this developing story and its effect on the Democratic Party, still reeling from nationwide midterm electoral losses.