U.S. Airways Confirms That Jeremih Did Not Pay For a Ticket On The Newark To Phoenix Flight He Attempted To Sneak On
As social media is a buzz regarding the news surrounding R&B singer Jeremih attempting to sneak on a U.S. Airways flight to Phoenix with two members of his entourage, a representative from U.S. Airways has come forward with information that is sure to further the popular R&B singer’s character assassination. The singer, who is most known for his hit song “Birthday Sex”, was arrested at Newark Airport on Friday December 12 2014. According to Port Authority Police, Jeremih Felton attempted to illegally board the plane even though he had missed the flights boarding call and the door to the plane was locked. According to Port Authority Police, a member of Jeremih’s entourage was able to pry the plane’s closed and locked door open to allow Jeremih access to board the flight. Port Authority Police confirmed the arrest of Jeremih and his associate for disorderly conduct and obstruction. The member of Jeremih’s entourage that allegedly used force to open the plane’s locked door has been identified as Dontate Cunningham and was arrested for defiant trespass. Since the incident on Friday surfaced on the internet, social media users have been eagerly sharing the news and seem to be laughing at the R&B singer’s lack in judgment.  As the story continues to trend among social media platforms throughout the weekend, a U.S. Airways representative has come forward with information that may change the perception of Jeremih’s actions from laughable to just plain disgraceful. An employee from U.S. Airways reportedly leaked information to the media on Saturday that Jeremih did not pay for a ticket on the flight he was attempting to sneak on.  The employee indicated based on U.S. Airways ticketing data base, it’s clear that Jeremih did not purchase a ticket for the Friday flight from Newark to Phoenix. Upon the above information being leaked on Saturday, the media has aggressively solicited U.S. Airways for an official statement. Daniel Rickers who is U.S .Airways Director of Public Affairs and company spokesperson gave the following official statement Sunday morning, “After careful analysis of company flight and payment records it’s been confirmed that Jeremih Felton did not purchase a ticket to the flight he unlawfully attempted to board.” Spokesperson Rickers also said, “It is not uncommon for people to attempt to sneak on our flights without paying for a ticket; however we don’t typically see that type of behavior from celebrities of Jeremih’s caliber, they typically purchase the flight tickets themselves instead of having their business manager pay for the ticket as Jeremih did”. As of today, Jeremih has not been willing to publically address the allegations from U.S. Airways.