Bill Cosby: I’m Being Raped By The Right-Wing Media
The news just got worse for comedian and once beloved TV dad Bill Cosby amid mounting allegations of sexual assault. First came word that Netflix postponed a Nov. 27 premiere of Cosby’s new standup routine, then on Nov. 18 former model Janice Dickinson claimed in an ET interview that Cosby drugged and sexually assaulted her in the 1980s – a charge which quashed plans for a planned ‘comeback’ sitcom and a charge which Cosby denies. Dickinson, the self-described ‘world’s first supermodel’ also said lawyers and her publisher pressured her to remove all references to Cosby’s alleged actions from her 2002 autobiography No Lifeguard On Duty. Now, Cosby is angering conservatives with remarks allegedly made during a rehearsal while on tour. During a telephone conversation overheard by a theater employee in Florida, the comedian reportedly remarked, “I feel like I’m being raped by the right-wing media.” “He was on the phone,” said the employee who requested anonymity, “and I think maybe it was with one of his lawyers and he told him, ‘Now I know how it feels to be raped. All these people making allegations after all these years have made me the victim of this thing,’ and then he said ‘now I’m the one being raped by the media, especially the right-wing media.'” The firestorm began last October when comedian Hannibal Buress called Cosby a rapist during a performance in Philadelphia, Cosby’s hometown. Since then, two more women have identified themselves as victims of Cosby’s unwanted advances, with at least 14 women making similar allegations dating back to 1969 – all following the same general scenario – dinner, drinks, then waking the next morning dressed in different clothing, having no memory of what occurred the previous evening. During a radio interview last week, Cosby responded with silence when asked if sexual assault allegations made against him had any merit. The question is, can a comedy icon so widely known and long admired recover from career-ending allegations of sexual assault by simply refusing to answer the charges head-on? Is the public’s opinion of Cosby irreparably damaged, or will the fickle, liberal Hollywood elites forgive and forget as they often do, lest they be accused of bias? Cosby’s tour dates remain intact, although his television career has come crashing to an abrupt end – an inconceivable notion when examining his body of work – especially the incredible ground-breaking success of The Cosby Show,” which aired on NBC from 1984-1992, never ranking lower than third place during the first six of its eight seasons. But The Cosby Show was fiction, and now that glamorized image of a “typical” African-American upper-middle class family adored by millions of  fans worldwide has been overshadowed by ugly truths lurking just behind the stage door.