Obama Takes Major Credit For Marine’s Release From Mexican Prison
Barack Obama took credit today for Mexico’s release of US Sgt. Andrew Tahmooressi, ignoring charges that his administration was slow to act in securing the former marine’s freedom. The President praised the Mexican government’s decision to drop the case against Tahmooressi, taken into custody last March 31 after accidentally crossing into Tijuana with three weapons in the back of his truck, an event the marine called an innocent mistake. “I thank the individuals assisting my negotiating team in our efforts to bring closure to this case,” said the President, speaking from the Rose Garden. “All Americans should join the Tahmooressi family in celebrating his new found freedom,” he added. Tahmooressi was confined for 214 days. Tahmooressi’s return to US soil comes after closed door congressional sessions, harshly critical of Obama’s inaction, resulted in stepped-up diplomatic efforts led by US Ambassador Earl Anthony Wayne and Mexico’s Attorney General Jesús Murillo Karam. Former New Mexico Gov. Bill Richardson, Reps. Ed Royce (R-CA) and Matt Salmon (R-AZ) met with Mexico’s AG and the US Ambassador to urge the Afghanistan War vet’s release on humanitarian grounds. Also traveling with the entourage was talk show host Montel Williams – himself a former marine – and Tahmooressi’s mother Jill, who for months has spoken of her son’s mental state state during his incarceration. She recently appealed to the Mexican government on her son’s behalf when her request for assistance from the Obama administration fell upon deaf ears. Tahmooressi served two tours of duty in Afghanistan and suffers from Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder, a key issue presented by his defense attorney Fernando Benitez. The defense team rested their case over two weeks ago, with little movement on the Mexican government’s part to make final judgment. Many GOP leaders welcomed the news of the marine’s return, while remaining critical of the President’s apparent lack of active involvement. Former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin took to Twitter praising Tahmooressi’s return, while charging that Obama broke the “sacred commitment to never leave an American behind,” a sentiment shared by many. Tahmooressi, flown from Mexico to San Diego, then Miami, returned to his home in Weston, Florida early Saturday morning. Apparently in good spirits, he looked forward to a steak dinner, according to Gov. Richardson. Treatment for his PTSD is expected to resume shortly, and the family is requesting privacy, said Richardson during a FOX News interview.