Justin Bieber Lands Biff Tannen Role In “Back To The Future” Remake
Canadian pop singer Justin Bieber will soon take on his first dramatic acting gig in a motion picture, after landing the supporting role of high school bully Biff Tannen in the 2016 remake of the classic 1985 comedy sci-fi film “Back to the Future.” The film will begin shooting in April 2015, and is aiming for a fall 2016 release date. Bieber was the last actor in a major role to be cast for the film. Liam Hemsworth was originally offered the job, but was forced to turn it down due to scheduling conflicts with “The Hunger Games.” Reboot creator Judd Apatow says Bieber is a “natural fit” for the role, and says the pop star is “keen on playing into his new `bad boy image’ by taking up the role of one of the most infamous bullies in all of movies.” In the film, “Maze Runner” star Dylan O’Brien will take up the role of Marty McFly, a skateboarding teenage slacker who befriends a screwball scientist, Doc Brown (portrayed by John Malkovich), who has transformed a Tesla Model S into a time traveling machine. But when McFly learns that Brown purchased plutonium from a Pakistani terrorist (Sacha Baron Cohen), he accidentally drives the time-traveling Tesla thirty years into the past, visiting the year 1986, where he meets his own parents (Tom Felton and Kristen Stewart) in high school, and helps his father overcome a bully (Bieber) to win his mother’s love at a high school dance. The reboot was written by Apatow, and is being produced by Apatow, JJ Abrams, and original trilogy co-producer Neil Canton. “Bridesmaids” director Paul Feig will direct the first film in the trilogy, but hasn’t signed on for the two sequels yet. Franchise creators Robert Zemeckis and Bob Gale will not participate in the reboot, but will of course be credited as the creators and as co-writers. The film will be released and distributed by Universal Studios. Apatow says the film will “stay true to the spirit of the original,” but most of the story is being updated for contemporary audiences. “We want to give younger audiences that same feeling we all had when we first saw the original, so we’re hoping to stay true to the spirit of the original, and add in some fresh stuff without reinventing the wheel,” Apatow says. “For instance, we’re replacing the DeLorean with a Tesla. Marty won’t inadvertently invent rock and roll, but will play `Teen Spirit’ and invent grunge rock instead. Not that all of our changes will be aesthetic, but we do want fans to respect the new films, and we want the new audience to respect the original films.”  