NBC Green-Lights ‘Friends: The Movie’, Entire Original Cast Expected To Return
NBC, the company behind one of the biggest sitcoms of all time, has announced that they have signed the entire original cast of Friends to a major motion picture deal.“For some reason, people just will not let this show die the death it so rightfully deserves,” said NBC Chairman Dennis Belding. “Even after a ten-year run, and then being off the air another ten years, the fans cannot get enough of Joey, Chandler, and whatever the other characters names were. Hell, even I’ve forgotten by this point.”Belding says that the slew of fan-made trailers for a film, some of them coming out better than actual Hollywood trailers, that have popped up on YouTube over the years, were one of the biggest reasons they knew that people were still clamoring for more Friends. “There is a fake trailer on YouTube right now with almost 10 million views. A fake trailer for a fake movie has 10 million views? How could we look at that, and sit back and not cash in?” said Belding. “Thankfully, since most of the original cast, with the exception of Jennifer Aniston, have been stuck in TV hell ever since Friends ended, it wasn’t too hard to get them to sign on.”So far, plot details are being kept under wraps, but executives at NBC say it’s because they have no idea how to make a “shoddy sitcom” into a “good movie.”“It’s true that we’re still working out the details of the plot, but I’m sure it will be something remotely decent. Hell, even if it’s not, it won’t matter. People will still flock to see it. The show was on for ten years, and was horrible the entire time. People will see any movie based on TV shows. Shit, they made two Sex In The City movies, for crying out loud. Two! And they were both abysmal.”“I’m so excited to get back together with everyone,” said Courtney Cox, who currently stars on TV show Cougar Town. “We all remained good friends over the years, no pun intended. The fans, they just wouldn’t let us die. Well, the fans and Entertainment Weekly. I swear, that magazine has had more cover-stories and multi-page articles about Friends since the show ended than they ever did when we were on. It’s kind of creepy, actually. Like an uncle who pats you on the bum, but then the hand just lingers, you know?”Insider reports indicate that the movie is being made for a fraction of the cost of the original series, because most of the cast have lost any and all star power since the show ended.“When the show was on, the cast members were all making over a million dollars per episode, each” said Belding. “Thankfully, no one cares about David Schwimmer anymore. God knows why they ever did care about David Schwimmer. Anyway, they’re all working for peanuts this time around. Well, except for Jennifer Aniston, of course.”The movie is being written by newcomer Alex Moore, a self-proclaimed Friends fanatic. Producers are still looking for a director, but reports say they are leaning towards McG (Terminator Salvation, Charlies Angels: Full Throttle).The fan-made trailer For FRIENDS: The Movie that triggered NBC executives to green-light the film  