“Iraqi Idol” TV Singing Competition Cancelled
Producer Simon Cowell announced today that the Final Four taping of Iraqian Idol has been scrubbed due to a “spot of trouble with guns and bombs and such” around the nation’s capital. “It’s a bit of a bloody bum bugger really,” Cowell told BBC by Skype from the lobby of the Exxon Mobile Freedom Theater in downtown Baghdad. “All those explosions going off were really making our sound recording all mookey.” “Plus we had some frisky fisticuffs in the ticket lineup between some Sunnis and some Shias but they all look the same to me.” The cancellation of the singing talent show is being taken as a telling sign by western mainstream media that all is not normal in Iraq. Fox News devoted a full hour to “the sad news that such a great cultural event has been sacrificed just due to some Muslims wanting to kill each other.” “You can directly trace the blame for the death of Iraqian Idol back to Benghazi,” said Fox entertainer Bill O’Reilly. “And Obamacare didn’t help much at all now did it?”  With Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) insurgents closing in on Baghdad and former U.S. President George W. Bush calling for “droning the ever-loving crap” out of any “Aarabs” who get near oil pipelines or refineries, all-out civil war now seems a possibility according to CNN’s Wolf Blitzer (not his real name). The tense military situation led McDonalds and KFC to announce today that their outlets in Baghdad will temporarily cease 24-hour service. With Emirates Airlines reporting only one or two passengers on their flights into Baghdad International Airport, Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki made an appeal on his Facebook page for tourists not to cancel their travel plans to Iraq. “The Hanging Gardens of Babylon are gorgeous this time of year,” al-Maliki posted. “Click and print the coupons below for half-price admission to the Garage Where Saddam Hussein Was Hanged exhibit.” Simon Cowell says he is unsure if Iraqian Idol will be rescheduled. “I’m pretty tied up right now filming So You Think You Can Dance Palestine, poor blighters.”