Republican Lawmakers Pushing To Repeal 15th, 19th Amendments, Pending Success In Midterms
With Tuesday’s midterm elections upon us, many in the media are speculating that the Republican Party is bound to widen their majority in the House, while possibly also picking up a majority in the Senate. But what will the GOP do in office if they manage to win big tomorrow? One Republican lawmaker says the GOP will take the Supreme Court’s repeals against the Voting Rights act a few steps further, through a coordinated effort to repeal both the 15th and 19th amendments. Congressman Paul Horner (R) of Arizona’s 11th Congressional District is running unopposed on Tuesday, so with no campaigning to worry about, he’s been spending his free time authoring a new bill which he hopes to introduce on the floor of the House in February of 2015. The bill, co-authored by whom he describes as “movers and shakers in the GOP,” would repeal the 15th and 19th amendments, which grant voting rights to African American males and women respectively. The bill, tentatively titled “The Voting Freedom Act,” would repeal the two constitutional amendments, effective as of the bill’s passage, while also allocating more funding to “independent third-party polling station observer groups,” to help combat voter fraud. Horner wrote the bill back in 2009, but says it never went anywhere. “This is something I’ve been working on for a long while now. It’s only just now coming to fruition,” says Horner. “With the Democrats holding onto the Senate, this never would’ve gone anywhere. But if we win big on Tuesday, America wins big too.” “These amendments are archaic. They don’t serve a purpose in modern society,” Horner later added. “We know women can vote. We know blacks can. These two amendments aren’t helping anybody. All they’re really doing is complicating the system with more bureaucratic nonsense and superfluous legalities that slow down our entire way of governance in this country. We’ll be better off without [them].” Horner says the Republican Party is strongly behind the bill, too. “I’ve already had a dozen Republicans, key people, agree to sponsor this bill. I’ve had assurances from party leadership that we can get this legislation muscled through committee and voted on pretty fast. Almost everyone on the Hill has seen it already. Republicans I mean, they’ve seen it. And if we win big on Tuesday, that’s all we need to get the ball rolling.” But not everyone on Capitol Hill is as sure about the bill as Horner or his Republican colleagues. The American Civil Liberties Union claims that several democrats learned of the plan back in August, and approached the ACLU’s legal team for advice in trying to kill off the bill before it’s even been presented before Congress. “We need to kill this bill, and we need to act fast, because pretty soon the votes aren’t going to be there to stop it,” says African American Congressman Keith Ellison (D-MN). “The ramifications here are astronomical. They’re talking about taking away the rights of Americans here. Black voters, and women voters. And they’re trying to pass this off as nothing more than efficiency, but really, those are two key demographics for Democrats. That’s what this is really about.” But Horner assures that it has nothing to do with those demographics. “Look, I’m the first to admit that I’m not happy with how those people vote in elections, but this isn’t about them,” Horner explains. “This is all about the Constitution being a living document. It needs to be streamlined now and again, that’s all. It’s not like we’d repeal those amendments and then `poof,’ blacks and women can’t vote anymore. It doesn’t work like that.” \n