Minecraft Subscription Fees Going Into Effect May 1st
Fans of the wildly popular video game Minecraft are going to soon find themselves angrier than if a creeper just blew up inside their cabin, after Microsoft announced Saturday morning that the famed mining and building game will require a $5 monthly subscription, starting with the release of patch 1.9 on May 1st, 2015. The upcoming patch, tentatively titled “The Sea Shanty Patch,” will introduce a plethora of naval-themed updates, including large, multi-seat pirate ships, Viking ships, and new pirate and Viking mobs, as well as buried treasure chests in beach biomes and special maps that lead to that treasure. Players will also be able to craft their own ships. They’re also adding weather at sea, including waves, typhoons, and white squalls. But the patch will also carry with it the game’s first subscription, which Minecraft developers Mojang say will be “optional, but also sort of mandatory.” “This patch is going to carry with it a subscription fee, which you don’t need to pay, but you’ll want to pay it,” says Minecraft developer Nathan “Dinnerbone” Adams. “The subscription will get you access to all future patches, starting in the `1.10′ era. non-subscribers will be stuck on 1.8, and in the future, new gameplay features will be turned off if you cancel your subscription.” Dinnerbone says the game’s next three patches, 1.9 included, will all be focused on adventure. “You’ll want to pay the subscription, to be sure. I can’t really go into details about what our future patches will look like, but I can tell you that 1.10 is already being planned out, and it’s going to involve building rockets and flying into space, with mining on moons and asteroids. And foreign planets will have funky, cool new biomes and alien creatures. So you’ll want to pay the subscription. You won’t want to miss out on all of these new adventures.” Microsoft says Minecraft will be free to download starting on May 1st as well, with the subscription replacing the game’s current one-time $26.95 purchase price. The more than 18.4 million people who purchased the game for PC prior to May 1st will all be reimbursed that purchase price, with their subscription fees for the first six months being waived.  