Elon Musk Replaced By Robot As CEO Of Tesla Motors
In a surprising move, Tesla Motors removed Elon Musk as CEO this morning and replaced him with a highly intelligent robot. In a statement posted on its website, the pioneering electric car company thanked Musk for his years of service, but told investors that a more efficient executive has been found. The robot’s name is Mark Calaway. He was developed internally at Tesla in hopes of creating a more intelligent crash-test dummy. But researchers soon discovered that Calloway could perform other, more complex tasks better than humans. In the two short months since being activated, Calloway has risen up the ranks all the way to COO, and has recently been running most of Tesla’s executive meetings. One Tesla board member says its choice was obvious as the robot is “‘superior in every way” to a human chief executive The board did not inform Musk, who learned of his predicament when his identification card no longer unlocked the front door and all his office belongings sat outside on the curb. “I got outsmarted,” Musk told Forbes magazine. “Don’t know how the robot did it, but it did. I told you stuff like this would happen. Artificial intelligence (AI) isn’t the future, it’s the present. Now I’m out of Tesla Motors and Mark the robot is in. “If it can happen to me, it can happen to anyone. All I can do is hang on to my spaceship company and hope the rockets don’t blow up or I get replaced by another robot. If it can happen once, it can happen again.” Musk made his first fortune as a co-founder of PayPal, the online payment service that was eventually sold to online bidding website eBay. Rather than retire young, he used his cash to start Tesla and Space X, his groundbreaking space transportation firm. Musk and other Silicon Valley CEOs have created the threats that artificial intelligence pose to humans. These fears have not stopped Musk from investing in AI start-ups. “I’ll be rethinking my investment strategy,” he said. “I went from being Iron Man to just Man. I guess Mark is the new Iron Man.”