BREAKING: Touch-Screen Voting Machines Collected Millions of Tea Party Fingerprints for Homeland Security
Speaking on the condition of anonymity, a disgruntled engineer for the largest voting machine manufacturer in North America leaked information to NR about the Department of Homeland Security’s involvement with 2014 mid-term election voting data. The source claimed that in the months preceding the election, more than seventeen thousand new touch-screen voting machines were deployed in almost every state in the union. The bulk of the machines were located in areas with known Tea Party and Libertarian population densities. The latest generation of machines shipped with new fingerprint gathering technology developed by DHS in cooperation with Apple. This groundbreaking technology first came to prominence when Apple released its iPhone 5s TouchID fingerprint login in late 2013. But the company has been working on the technology since as early as 2012 when Apple acquired AuthenTec, a company focused on fingerprint reading and identification management software, for $356 million. Since then Apple has been working on ways to make the technology profitable by marketing it directly to military agencies and other companies. Our source revealed that during the course of the election over 4 million Tea Party and Libertarian fingerprints were collected and distributed directly to the DHS Domestic Terrorist database. The source could not verify whether or not the voters were labeled as “domestic terrorist” or not, but he noted that the lowest category assignment in the database is “associated with domestic terror”, which is damning enough. Our source admitted he was too frightened to even tell us the name of the manufacturer involved. “Things started getting really weird at work this summer,” our source said. “There were literally men in tactical gear with rifles patrolling the engineering branch as we worked. I finished the assignment and then got out of there by September.” We reached out to three major manufacturers of voting machines questioning the validity of this story. Our calls went unanswered as of this morning.