Cindy Sheehan Calls For Invasion of Syria
Anti-war protester Cindy Sheehan called for the United States to invade Syria today and halt what she termed a "humanitarian catastrophe." In an interview with the Washington Standard, the notorious Iraq War opponent argued that the international community could no longer sit idly by and let the civilian death toll in that country's civil war climb any higher. Her bold declaration comes one day after the U.S. said it believed the Syrian government under dictator Bashar Al-Assad had used chemical weapons against its own people, a "red line" which Obama had previously indicated would trigger increased American intervention. "According to the United Nations over 70,000 people have already been killed in this civil war," Sheehan explained. "Innocent women and children have had their lives stolen from them. Families have been destroyed. Many more have been displaced. "A well-planned invasion using precision air strikes and special forces could save thousands of Syrian lives. What are we waiting for? Why won't Obama act? "Is it because Syrians are Arab? Is that why America is leaving them for dead? I bet if blond Swedish people were being slaughtered, we'd intervene imminently. It's racist, frankly, to not even consider invading Syria." No Blood For Civilians  Sheehan came to national prominence in the summer of 2005 when she staged a dramatic protest outside president George W. Bush's ranch in Texas and soon became the face of the anti-Iraq war movement. She has since marginalized herself, however, by aligning with fringe political movements and making controversial statements such as claiming that Osama Bin Laden's death was a hoax. Sheehan has also been accused of anti-Semitism, a charge she did nothing to dispell in her interview. "We lost over 400,000 of our brave solders in World War II trying to save the Jews," she argued, "but we won't risk the life of one American solider for an Arab? This is nothing but a continuation of America's imperialist, Zionist foreign policy. "What good is being a all-powerful global empire if we can't use our power to help people? But I guess that's the capitalist game huh? Just wait for everybody in Syria to die, then have Exxon colonize it and take the oil. "The multinational corporations are just loving the Syrian civil war. Once the the country is depopulated, McDonald's can use all the empty land to grow hormone-treated beef, Monsanto can test their new genetically modified super-tobacco, and Goldman Sachs can finally build that for-profit refugee camp they've been talking about for years. "Obama could end this deadly war in two weeks with quick, decisive American military action. But the capitalist puppet-masters won't let him. How can we as human beings sit by and let this atrocity take place? Where's our moral compass?"