Hundreds of Stars Coming Out for Brian Griffin Funeral — Obama Sending ‘Bo’
Some of the biggest names in entertainment, sports and politics are scrambling for hotel, motel or bed and breakfast rooms in the small city of Quahog to attend the funeral of Family Guy co-star Brian Griffin who was killed in a hit-and-run car accident earlier this week. “Who’s a good boy?” asked an emotional Betty White (91), star of current TV comedy Hot in Cleveland and long-time animal rights activist speaking to CNN’s Wolf Blitzer (not his real name). “Brian Griffin was a f*****g good boy! That’s who.” Miley Cyrus, Texas Senator Ted Cruz, Ashton Kutcher, Bono, Charlie Sheen, Lady Gaga, Leonardo DiCaprio, New England Patriot’s quarterback Tom Brady, and the entire cast of Glee have confirmed their attendance. The Funeral was scheduled for Saturday at the Quahog Memorial Funeral Quonset Hut but Mayor Adam West announced earlier today that because of anticipated crowds it has been moved to the Quahog Off-Leash Park and Mini-Putt, weather permitting. Actor Robert Redford posted on his Facebook page that he will not be able to attend as he is scheduled to march in a protest against the air pollution caused by Glade Plug-In Air Freshners. “Brian humped a Louis XIV settee the first time he came over to my house,” reminisced Redford (94). “But the settee was Scotchguarded and we ended up laughing about it later and becoming great friends. I will miss him.” Senator Cruz spokesman Bud Cartwright told FOX News that the Senator has pulled out of immigration reform meetings to attend. “Even though the Senator and Brian Griffiths never met, Senator Cruz told me he could deal with the illegals later. He wants to pay his sincere, honest, kind-hearted, patriotic respects to this all-American dog that was born somewhere right here in God’s own United States of America.” The White House has confirmed that President Obama will be unable to attend but is sending Presidential Portuguese Water Dog Bo. After hearing that so many other famous people were coming out for Brian’s funeral, pop diva Justin Bieber mistook the meaning and tweeted that he is gay. 