‘Fat Bird Stuffed with S**T’, GOP Criticized for More Anti-Hillary Buttons
The California Republican Party convention that sold sexist campaign buttons attacking Hillary Clinton reportedly had dozens more on sale, according to staff and GOP officials. A San Francisco Chronicle reporter tweeted a photo of anti-Hillary Clinton buttons, which stated, "KFC Hillary Special 2 Fat Thighs, 2 Small Breasts ...Left-wing," during a three-day convention in Anaheim that focused on recruiting more women and minority voters. After the story emerged, several convention staff members tweeted photos of other anti-Clinton buttons that were displayed and sold elsewhere at the convention, most of which continued with the Kentucky Fried Chicken theme in attacking Clinton, a potential Democratic nominee for president in 2016. Here is a selection of some of the buttons: "KFC Hillary Special: Fat Bird Stuffed with S**T" "Hillary's C**t Sandwich: Ice-cold roast beef with creamy Arkansas mayonnaise." "Taco Bell Hillary Special: Factory-made, full of cheese and a large, gaping slit full of Mexican beans" "KFC Chickens Cooked in Kitchen, Where Hillary Should Be" Less subtle campaign buttons included "Hillary's a C-word, and We Don't Mean Chicken" and even "Hillary Clinton is a Fat Whore." Other buttons mocked President Barack Obama, with one reading "Obama's KFC: Don't Trust the Dark Meat." An outraged Democratic Party of California picked up on the pictures and spread them in progressive circles.        The California GOP confirmed that the buttons were sold at the convention, but denied that the slogans were sexist and offensive. "The buttons are meant to be funny," spokesman Bob Terwilliger said. "I can assure you that absolutely no women or minorities attended the convention, so not one person complained about the buttons."a GOP confirmed that the buttons were sold at the convention, but denied that the slogans were sexist and offensive. Indeed one prominent conservative blogger, Erik Erickson of RedState, seemed to find humor in the slogans:      No chickens, just pigs In response, the California Democratic Party announced it has altered the menu of a party fundraiser, which is scheduled for later this month in Los Angeles. According to a fundraiser itinerary, attendees will enjoy a feast of Tea Party mini-weiners, John Boehner oranges, Koch Brothers Kool-Aid, Ted Cruz flip-flop flapjacks, Sean Hannity bologna sandwiches and whites-only wine, along with a main course of roast pig, with side dishes of assorted horse and bull parts. Spokesman Conrad Brean said the Republican buttons echoed a similar story in Australia, in which a conservative party fundraiser mocked then-Prime Minister Julia Gillard by serving a Julia Gillard Quail with "small breasts, huge thighs and a big red box." "The Republicans think everything they do is clever and funny," Brean said. "So we hope they'll think our menu is just as funny as their buttons."