Andrew Mitchell Verbally Assaults Waitress
Andrew Mitchell found himself embrioiled in further controversy today after mobile phone video surfaced of the U.K. government's chief whip berating a waitress at a posh London restaurant. The latest incident comes less than a week after Mitchell verbally assaulted police after being told he couldn't use the main gate to Whitehall whilst on his bicycle. After refusing to be escorted to the pedestrian gate, Mitchell reportedly flew into a rage - swearing at the officers and calling them "plebs." - a term for someone of low social standing. Mitchell has since apologized, and Prime Minister David Cameron has made clear that he stands behind the embattled MP. Camerons's confidnece may be shaken, however, by today's events at Rowley's restaurant in London, where videotape shows Mitchell flying into another, more  misogynistic public rant. Call My Name Witnesses on the scene say it began when Mitchell lept from his chair upon receiving the wrong salad, cornered his waitress near the bar, and began berating her. Shirley Tyson, a homemaker from Bristol began recording the incident mid way though with her iPhone. A copy has been made available to The Daily Currant, and it shows a remarkably angry and red faced Mitchell screaming only inches away from a young woman's face: "Do you know who the fuck I am? Can that pea sized chavette brain of yours even understand my power? I'm Andrew FUCKING Mitchell, luv. I'm the Ginghas fucking Khan of Downing Street. The Malcom Tucker of reality. A third generation MP. President of the Cambridge Union." "And who the fuck are you? Some Geordie trollup who thought if she'd moved to the big city maybe she'd make it big like Cheryl Cole? Not gonna happen. You're nothing but a common cunt. And a complete minger at that." "The only job you're qualified for is scarecrow. The government could use your face in its immigration adverts. Plaster your mug all over Nigeria with the headline "Britian welcomes you." "We'd cut immigration levlels in half. Because even starving Nigerian blokes don't want to live in a country where the women look like fucking Susan Boyle after being hit by a bag full of nails." A Greek Tragedy Mitchell then redirected his rage at the waitress's mistake in taking his order, grabbing a menu and waving it in her face: "Can't you see this? I clearly pointed to the Ceasar Salad, not the Greek. The Greek's not even on the same fucking page!" "What's the matter luv? Too much vaseline in your eyes? Or maybe you just forgot to wash up after your unemployed fuck buddy blew you a money shot last night? Either way, your visual incometence shouldn't be my fucking problem should it?" At this point Mitchell thows the menu on the floor in a fit of rage and storms out of the restaurant. The waitress cowers in stunned silence throughout the entire video. "I thought the comments about her being a minger were out of line." says Tyson "She was in fact a terrible waitress, but I thought she was a lovely young lady. Very polite, and pleasant looking." Contacted by The Daily Currant, the Prime Minister's spokesperson Gabby Berlin says Downing Street has not had an opportunity to reveiw the tape and will "take appropriate measures if justified."  