NRA Petitions Congress For A ‘Do-Over’ On The 2nd Amendment
NRA Executive Vice President, Wayne LaPierre, is leading a growing movement to send America back to 1791.  Under intense scrutiny after recent mass shootings, LaPierre has heard enough.  The exasperated leader has started a petition to send America back to 1791 so we can re-sign the 2nd amendment and ‘do it the right way this time.’ “My proposal involves changing 2015 back to 1791,” asserts LaPierre.  “We’ll have a full year to prepare and a lot will need to be done.  We’ll need to get rid of all of this technology.  And I’m afraid people like Bill Gates and Mark Zuckerberg will need to be killed.  They just know too much.  The NRA will ensure that the streets are rid of all assault weapons and reintroduce muskets and bayonets.  We’ll have to get rid of banks so we can start that over as well.  One way streets were introduced around that time too and we’d like to revisit whether or not this was really a good idea.  We’ll have to destroy some cities and such but this can be done.  It will take everyone’s full commitment.  We can do slavery, a civil war, and hippie love all over again.  It will be great.  It is also our contention that we really look at the states adopted after the 13 colonies.  Come on, there is no way Vermont should have ever been accepted as a state.” LaPierre and radical gun enthusiasts believe that this proposal is a very fair compromise to tougher gun control laws in present day.  “We need a do-over,” continues LaPierre.  “We’re not going to point blame at anyone specifically but it has become very clear that some people cannot live by the laws we have set forth in this country.  Things were better when women were oppressed and colored people had no say in their own lives.  I mean, you can’t even shoot anyone today in a dark corner of the woods without it being on the Internet.  Ridiculous.” Senate Majority Leader, Harry Reid, is said to be ‘very intrigued’ by LaPierre’s proposal.  He was heard, off the record, saying “Does this mean that all of photographs will be black and white again?  And women will have to wear those huge hula hoop things underneath their skirts?  Hmm, very interesting.  What about Indians?  Do we get to kill a whole bunch of them again?” We will keep you updated as new details surface about the potential of this movement gaining more significant traction.