White House Defends PSY As He Remains Slated To Perform At Holiday Gala
The White House has forgiven South Korean rapper PSY for his past anti-American lyrics but may have created its own controversy in the process.  PSY remains slated to perform Sunday evening at a holiday concert to be attended by President Obama and the first family despite controversy over PSY’s past lyrics advocating the torture and killing of American servicemen.  The wold famous “Gangnam Style” rapper – born Park Jae-sang – made a formal apology on Friday for using what he says was “inflammatory and inappropriate language” in songs a decade ago.  In a 2004 song for a South Korean band, PSY refrained: “Kill those f---ing Yankees who have been torturing Iraqi captives.”  The lyrics continued: \"Kill their daughters, mothers, daughters-in-law and fathers.\"  The offending song was performed by PSY and other performers protesting the execution of a Korean missionary by terrorists demanding that South Korea not aid the U.S. in the Iraq war.  PSY explained the protests were part of a “deeply emotional” reaction to the war and the killing of two Korean schoolgirls.  The rapper said he “will forever be sorry for any pain I have caused by those words.” On Friday, White House Press Secretary relayed a message from President Obama that has the right-wing blogosphere atwitter.  “The President understands PSY’s past frustrations with American foreign policy,” said Carney.  “In addition, the President feels that harsh criticism and in rare circumstances targeted resistance to American intervention is understandable.”  Some also have criticized the White House's decision to commence the gala with the Muslim call to prayer.  Carney explained that this addition to the proceedings this year was \"an important nod to religious diversity in America.\" PSY’s performance, which will be taped Sunday evening, will also include performances by the former Cat Stevens, a reunited rap group Public Enemy and crooner Harry Belafonte. The sitting U.S. president traditionally attends the “Christmas in Washington” concert of carols and songs to benefit the Children's National Medical Center. The 31st installment will be held at the National Building Museum, and is to benefit the Orphans of Palestine charity for the first year.  Kanye West will be serving as MC. 