Kale Smoking Fad Catches Fire – “Kaling” Is Hot
Are you ordering a kale smoothie or drizzling some raspberry vinaigrette on those “newly discovered” curly miracle leaves that Southerners have been eating since Jefferson Davis was a sprout? Well guess what you old fart? You’re old. It’s no longer fashionable or chic – or whatever the word is these days – to eat or drink kale, ’cause now the kids are smoking it! That’s right, the kids are now smoking the kale! The new trend is called ‘kaling.’ LA kids started passing around glassine baggies full of dried, smokable kale, stamped with the likeness of actress Mindy Kaling, lately of The Mindy Project and previously from the American version of The Office. The trend is moving eastward, and fast! Kale’s not a banned substance, and therefore not illegal. It’s food, for crying out loud. But kids aren’t self-medicating these days anyway – they’re self-mindykaling – and not to get high – but to get healthy. That’s what kids do these days! They smoke to get healthy! Ain’t that a blip? The whole damn world’s turned upside-down! Can can a person actually gain health benefits from smoking a healthy substance? What good is inhaling a generous blast of vitamins A and C, only to have your lungs turn into a vast network of calcified tubes in the process? National Report asked Dr. Leda Horstwasser, pulmonary specialist at Boston’s Massachusetts General Hospital about the risks and/or benefits if any, of ‘kaling.’ “Smoking is not good for you,” said Horstwasser. “It takes a toll on your entire cardiopulmonary system. It affects your blood pressure, metabolism, and so on. So I wouldn’t suggest smoking kale, in the same way that I wouldn’t suggest injecting spinach or carrots directly into the bloodstream. Those vegetables are also beneficial, but no sane person would put them in a needle and mainline them, now would they? I must stress, however, ‘everything in moderation’ should be the general rule. Even with something like kale which is nutritionally beneficial, if you were to eat or drink too much of it, you could disrupt thyroid function. So just be sensible about what you put into your body. And smoking it? Just don’t.” Do you hear that, kids? Put down the pipe. Pick up a ball or a tennis racket or a Frisbee and go outside and run around in the fresh air for kale’s sake! Quit burying your nose in all your hand-held devices that make you near-sighted and give you the carpal tunnel in your thumbs with your tablets and iPhones and earpods and obesities and whatnot. And keep off my lawn while you’re at it, whippersnappers!