Obama to Declare America A ‘Socialist State’
A leaked copy of of President Obama's State of the Union address has revealed plans to declare the United States a socialist nation allied with Fidel Castro's Cuba. The top-secret document outlines Obama's four-year plan to radically transform the country into a 'post-capitalist superpower' guided by the principles of Karl Marx, Saul Alinsky, and Hugo Chavez.  The plan begins with a series of executive orders banning firearms, outlawing Christianity, and putting a $150,000 cap on all private sector salaries. It then proceeds to a complete overhaul of the tax code, which eliminates taxes on the poor and raises taxes on the rich to 80% of gross income. The administration will also increase welfare payments to African-Americans by 350% and nix Social Security payments for whites. Viva Obama Although the United States has moved to the left in recent years - passing a universal health care law and allowing gays to serve in the military - some see a complete socialist revolution as a step too far. But according to Obama's inner circle, there is a precedent for such a sweeping transformation. "The example of Hugo Chavez in Venezuela shows us that socialism can work on a grand scale," the speech reads,"We no longer have to look to the failed experiment of the Soviet Union. Socialism is a 21st system that works." "In Venezuela you don't have to work for a living. You can stay at home and have the government pay for everything. Doesn't that sound nice? Whycan't we have that kind of luxury in America? "Rich people have so much money. Why can't they share so the rest of us can have free iPads and free gasoline for our cars?" It is unclear if Obama has always been an hard-line socialist, or if he has had a recent change of heart. But reading the speech, it is clear his loyalties now like firmly in the Marxist-Leninist camp. In the text, Obama also says he will unilaterally end the embargo of Casto's regime and will refuse to enforce all immigration laws - allowing anyone from anywhere in the world to settle in the United States. He will also eliminate college tuition, forgive all outstanding student loan debt, and ban the practice of home schooling - forcing conservatives to be indoctrinated with liberal concepts such as human evolution and gravity. Many liberals are disturbed by the extreme nature of the plan, but are perhaps most concerned by the fact that conservative paranoia about his intentions appears to have been justified. "This makes Glenn Beck look like a clairvoyant genius," explains one liberal activist.