Obama Calls on Frank Luntz to Spin Ebola Crisis
The average person doesn’t have to know who Frank Luntz is to be affected by his work. The Fox News commentator and GOP analyst shaped Newt Gingrich’s Contract With America and changed the relatively benign public perception of the estate tax, by renaming it the death tax. His talent is turning opinions around, and now it seems even President Obama is seeking Luntz’ rebranding skills to help change Americans’ increasingly negative impressions regarding the administration’s mishandling of the Ebola crisis, the latest in a long list of Obama’s disasters. Taking the “if you can’t beat ‘em, join ‘em” attitude, Obama has apparently turned to LuntzGlobal.com to spin his disastrous Ebola crisis management strategy in the opposite direction, hoping to bolster his gloomy approval rating numbers. During a daily press briefing yesterday, reporters questioned White House Press Secretary Josh Earnest about the lack of pro-active leadership that seems to surround the President’s strategy in dealing with Ebola.  Earnest disagreed with the tone of the questions, detailing steps the President has taken to offer “all the federal resources we have at our disposal” to aid and assist state and local health agencies. “I don’t agree with this negative spin,” said Earnest. “Even Frank Luntz is surprised at the level of public pushback regarding the President’s efforts.”  Immediately questioned by a number of reporters on whether Luntz was called in to advise the President, Earnest replied, “There has been some contact made; there have been some discussions.” When pressed further, Earnest would only remark “We are not in a position to comment on the specifics of what meetings took place between the administration and Frank Luntz. The President is working very hard to manage many difficult issues; getting the economy back on track, the dismantling of ISIL, and the latest Ebola crisis which he is fully in control of and apprised of.” Many GOP insiders have reacted with stunned disbelief.  Arizona Senator John McCain remarked “Now we’ve gone from ‘leading from behind’ to ‘spinning from behind. I guess that’s what you call this kind of desperate move by the President.”  Former Alaska Governor and McCain running mate Sarah Palin took to Facebook and remarked: “Do we have a traitor in our midsts?  Say it isn’t so Frank Luntz, that you would turn your very back on us and join the enemy camp?  I urge you to reexamine and reload yourself with the real Americans and their struggles with this new frightfully misguided lack of preparedness and leadership skill from Obama concerning the growing Ebola eventuality.” Time will tell if Obama’s strategy of ‘reaching across the aisle’ – proven ineffective so far – will produce the positive spin he so desperately seeks in the waning days of his presidency, as results of the Luntz/Obama alignment have not yet been seen.  New Ebola outbreaks have been reported, most visibly in New York City on Thursday, with little direct comment or involvement from the White House, although state officials in New York seem to suggest that they are doing just fine without relying on the Obama administration for guidance or assistance in handling the growing crisis.