New Bond Girl Will Be A Bond Boy-Girl – And Be Able To Shoot Back
In a move certain to make waves that reach this side of the Atlantic, the Broccoli family will have Bond romancing a transvestite in the next installment of the series. In 1989 the English independent film The Crying Game introduced audiences to the notion of a transvestite as a lead character.  Over 20 years later, a much better known English export will take matters a step further – transvestites as a love interest to the male lead. The much revered – and very profitable – James Bond 007 franchise will feature a transvestite Bond girl (or “Bond boy-girl”) in its 2014 installment with the working title of “Lady Gun.” The decision by Bond franchise owners the Broccoli family coincides with a broad political shift in the U.S. and Britain in favor of gay marriage and sexual identity freedom.  The Broccoli family are heirs to Albert R. Broccoli who made the first Bond film and acquired film rights to author Ian Fleming’s Brit superagent.  Janet Broccoli, perhaps the most vocal and active Bond franchise manager, also has been an outspoken advocate for gay rights. “My family supported me when I made my own sexuality known,” Janet said referring to her coming out of the closet in 1974.  “We are a forward thinking family and realize that we owe British society a duty to promote social change.”  The Bond franchise has generated roughly $5 billion in revenue for the family since the release of “Dr. No” in 1962. Making waves for Bond’s selection of partners is nothing new.  In 1985 the Bond franchise created a stir when Bond rendezvoused with a very black Grace Jones in “A View To A Kill.”  Janet Broccoli said that the family feared a backlash at the time.  “We thought that the public might not be ready, but we knew we were right,” she said.  “Even if it hurt in the short term, we knew it would pay off in the longer term.” Indeed, the Bond franchise won accolades – including a number of humanitarian awards – for the first interracial romance in a mainstream film.  Will a transgender romance create the same positive buzz?  Bond enthusiast and artifact collector Ronald Barthes said he has mixed feelings.  “I am for equal rights, don’t get me wrong,” he said.  “But Bond is a symbol of male identity so I think maybe we are not ready for this step.”  Barthes admits that he has found some transvestites to be attractive, but for some reason he could not explain why he does not think his idol James Bond should. Actor Daniel Craig is under contract for two more Bond films.  While his contract likely allows him some editorial input, transvestite hanky-panky probably is not on the list.  “In most A-level artists’ [actor’s] contracts they have ‘out clauses’ for offensive conduct like drug use,” said well-respected entertainment attorney Ben Spencerwood.  “Society is getting used to transexual relationships, so Craig might not have any right to object,” he said. Craig has not commented on the prospect of a Bond boy-girl but his politics are known to be left-leaning.  Some Bond aficionados speculate that he will embrace the decision.  Whether Craig reprises his role or not, it appears that 007’s next romantic interest will be one that is fully armed – and ready and able to shoot back.