White House Strategizing National Marijuana Legalization in Summer of 2015
President Barack Obama’s approval ratings haven’t seemed to budge out of the 40% to 50% range much since he took office in 2009. His accomplishments don’t seem to improve his approval ratings, while his scandals don’t seem to hurt him. But with 2016 looming, and presidential hopefuls already paying visits to Iowa and New Hampshire, Obama’s White House seems to be looking toward establishing a legacy and ending his administration on a high note… with emphasis on the word “high.” According to several sources inside the White House, President Obama instructed his staff over the weekend to begin plotting out a course for the nationwide legalization of both medical and recreational marijuana, cleaning up federal statutes, demobilizing the DEA from going after marijuana offenders, and incentivizing states to legalize the popular controlled substance. Obama’s alleged goal is to have marijuana legalized, at least at the federal level, in the summer of 2015, and insiders say Obama is perfectly poised to get it done. “The President is confident we can get marijuana legalized pretty easily, given our current political climate,” says one White House senior aide. “This is a topic that Americans really care about. So the idea is to legalize it next summer, when the 2016 election cycle is just getting started. Republicans will have to support President Obama on this, because it’ll kill them in their reelection campaigns or in the presidential race if they try to go after him. They’ll sound like that `Reefer Madness’ movie if they do. It would be a huge turnoff for voters, and that’s how you win this fight.” But why does Obama want to legalize marijuana? Is it all just for the approval ratings? Another White House staffer explained. “[Obama] smoked pot in college. He knows it isn’t dangerous, and the mild dangers it does pose are limited with some moderation. But yes, I do think his legacy matters to him. It matters to all of us. And there’s no better way to set things up so he can walk away from his second term with strong approval ratings, and give a fellow Democrat a decent foothold for 2016 while he’s at it. Plus, the benefits for the economy would be over the top, especially if we were taxing it.” Statistician Nate Silver predicts that if Obama were to legalize marijuana, His job approval ratings would skyrocket. “He’d most likely end the year in the upper-sixties, and by the summer of 2016 he’d have comfortable 70% to 75% approval ratings. That would be the new standard for the short duration of his time in office. I think he’d also start getting some credit for his accomplishments, too. His news coverage wouldn’t just focus on his scandals.” For now, the Obama Administration’s marijuana legalization efforts are limited to meetings and secretive discussions in the White House. None of the staffers who came forward to reveal those plans would speculate on when the White House might reveal the undertaking to the public.