Obama Plans To Reduce Deficit By Cutting Tax Exempt Status Of Christian Churches
Churches related to Christian denominations could lose their tax exempt status if President Barack Obama has his way. During a recent press conference, Obama expressed to reporters his hope to reduce–if not eliminate–the nation’s deficit. “In America, our hardest working citizens are the ones who are taxed the most excessively. There is no reason we should continue to punish the self-reliant by expecting them to foot the bill for nearly everything this state requires. We must find ways to cut corners and develop new methods of maintaining essential programs and services which rely so heavily on the incomes of our residents. Christian churches, for example, have always relied on tax-exempt status. I believe the time has come to start taxing churches in order to alleviate our nations debt. It’s time we hold them accountable. Christianity is a multi-billion dollar a year industry. It is for this reason that I do not believe these churches need their tax exempt status. The American public needs it far more.” When one reporter asked about the places of worship for other religions, such as Jewish synagogues, and Muslim mosques, Obama replied defensively: “Groups such as Muslims are a minority here in America. It would unfair, and un-American to punish such religious sects; To hold them accountable on the same level as Christians, who are the majority in this nation, would be asking far too much. It’s borderline discrimination to expect the outnumbered religions to aid us in a solution, when realistically, they had no hand in creating the problems which currently plague our nation. The deficit is an American problem, which will require an American solution. Christians should embrace this plan rather than object to it. My proposal will bring us closer to solving several issues at once without requiring individuals to submit to even more taxes in the future.” It’s unknown when Obama plans to follow through with agenda, or if it is simply wishful thinking on the POTUS’ part. Many Christians were opposed to the idea of taxation, and plan to formulate an appeal that they will present to the supreme court, in the hopes of banning the potential taxation of christian establishments of worship.