Hollywood Gathering to Feature Stanley Cup Final Game
In what is being toted as an event that will outshine E3, thousands of celebrities are expected to attend a large gathering among the other celebrities at the Staples Centre in Los Angeles. The event, which will be broadcast across the nation, takes place June 4th at 5:00pm Pacific Standard Time, which is 9:30pm for those in Newfoundland who plan on watching. The ticket describes the event as a “chance for celebrities to gather, sit around and chat for at least two and a half hours”. What makes the event interesting is there will also be thousands of common folk attending the game, many of which have been attending gatherings like there more than 50 times since September. They are also said to be loud, and have constant mood swings, cheering one minute and booing the next, and often insulting someone called “refs”. If that wasn’t grim enough there were expected to be a few Satan worshippers present as well. There had to be more to it, even though it was televised it appeared such a dull event, so I decided to investigate the matter further. The first celebrity tracked down David Beckham, who plays for some soccer team that is also in Los Angeles. When he confirmed he was attending the event at the Staples Centre he also gave us our first clue, noting that “it’s the ultimate chance to live the American Dream. Paying $15 dollars for a hot dog and a beer when you know it only costs half that”. This was hard logic to ignore. Later in the search for celebrities I found Rainn Wilson, who also confirmed that he was attending the event. While I assumed that paid for their own ticket, he quickly retorted with “False,” and then described how “even though the tickets cost hundreds, or thousands of dollars, celebrities get in free”. It sure seemed like the celebrities had it easy, but I wasn’t sold yet. Around the Staples Centre I found Kobe Bryant, fresh off his NBA playoff defeat, and got him to answer some more questions about the event. He said he plans to go for the “good press”, which he clarified by mentioning “that celebrities always get put up on the JumboTron.” He continued by saying “it shows that you don’t think you’re above people who ride the peasant wagon to work every morning, so everyone sees you as a better person.” He also said to “bring some kids, preferably your own”. Before sulking off to one of his beach houses, Kobe answered how he can put up with the common folk at the game. “They’re easy to ignore,” he began, “they’re all watching some Canadian game going on in the arena below. Supposedly this series they’re playing for some trophy that’s like the NBA championship, but they’ve never won it here so I can’t really verify it exists.” Case settled. With celebrities getting free publicity while living the American Dream it seems pretty obvious as to why this event will be the number one event on cable that evening.