Rick Perry Blames Ebola On Gays, Threatens Virus With Pistol
At an early morning GOP fundraiser in Dallas on Tuesday, Texas Governor Rick Perry told a group of about five-hundred conservatives that he believes homosexuals are to blame for the global spread of the deadly Ebola disease, and that if more Americans owned firearms, Ebola “wouldn’t even be a thing,” all while getting uproarious cheers and applause from the audience. The fundraiser breakfast was intended to raise money for the campaign of a young up-and-coming Republican rancher named Paul Stanley, who is running for a congressional seat in Texas’ 37th district. Perry served as the keynote speaker, spending the first half of his speech discussing Stanley’s accomplishments and qualifications for the job. He then focused the second half of his speech on “issues facing our great Nation and the great State of Texas,” one of which was Ebola. “This disease is terrifying because you can’t see it, you can’t smell it, you can’t touch it. But that doesn’t mean we can’t stop it,” Perry said. “We know where Ebola comes from. It’s the same place AIDS come[s] from. The same place this President comes from. Africa. And we know that in Africa, they lead very devious, questionable lifestyles. We don’t know if Ebola was first transmitted sexually or not, maybe between homosexuals. That’s how little we know about this disease. But we know it’s deadly, and we know where it comes from, and that’s a good start I think. That’s what we need to know if we want to root it out.” “I think Ebola is a terrible threat, but I know the American people are very resilient, and they don’t make ‘em any tougher than they do here in Texas,” Perry continued. “That being said, we need to prepare ourselves for whatever comes next. Ebola might be dangerous, but Texans are more dangerous, because we’re packing heat and we aren’t afraid to draw on someone or something if it threatens our families. And I think that if more Americans were like Texans, if more of them would keep firearms in their homes, to keep their families safe, well, this virus wouldn’t even be a thing, because you don’t mess with Texas.” The audience erupted in cheers and applause before Perry could continue, drawing a revolver pistol out of the podium and holding it up so everyone could see it. “I’ve got two words for you, Ebola. The first word is `Smith,’ and the second word is `Wesson.’ And Smith and Wesson have six high-caliber reasons why you best leave Texans and Americans alone.” The audience responded with an even bigger roar of approval, before Perry started discussing a recent hunting trip he went on with Horner and a few of his other Republican friends. Horner’s own speech was highly received as well, during which the young congressional candidate thanked Perry for his quote “diligent service to this fine State in our war against Ebola.”  