Phrase ‘Hands Up’ Has Been Removed From Dozens Of Films
A list of television shows already showing altered scenes on broadcast and streaming services include: Person Of Interest, NCIS, Law And Order: SVU, The Walking Dead, Bones and Trailer Park Boys. Films that have adopted the changes for streaming sites and broadcast airings include: Training Day, The Devil’s Rejects, The Dark Knight and The Wizard Of Oz among others. The list of shows and films affected by this industry-wide change is non-exhaustive at this point while fans are still finding changes. It is unknown if the changes to the films and television programs will be reflected in future pressings of DVDs and Blu-Ray discs or if this is just a temporary situation. Similar censorship of television programs and film happened after the 2001 “September 11th” terrorist attack on the United States. In that case, images of the World Trade Center’s twin towers were struck from popular television shows like ‘Friends’ and ‘The Simpson’s’ and a sequence from the upcoming film ‘Spider-Man’ was cut from the final product to remove the image of the towers. Much like the September 11th edits, the current ‘hands up’ edits appear to be an attempt by the entertainment industry to get people to forget and not dwell on the violence that has emanated from Ferguson, Missouri. This move comes not long after the St. Louis Rams head coach Jeff Fisher announced that five players that made the now possibly offensive ‘hands up’ sign before a recent NFL game will not be fined by the team. While the Rams player gestures offended the St. Louis Police Officers Association, it is unknown how the SLPOA will feel about the media companies removing references to the same gesture in their intellectual properties. A source from within Walt Disney Pictures also announced that several sequences from the upcoming ‘Star Wars: Episode VII – The Force Awakens’ had to be completely re-shot to comply with new internal rules in Hollywood post-Ferguson. “After viewing the most recent cut of ‘The Force Awakens’ we realized we had to make some major changes to one of the key plot lines in the film,” said the source speaking with anonymity. “In the current national climate we proactively re-shot certain sequences to be more sensitive to the needs of America right now.”