Letterman’s Final Show Complicated By NY Mayor de Blasio’s Eric Garner NYPD Comments
Controversy continues to surround embattled New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio, who lost the respect and support of many NYPD officers in the wake of the Eric Garner incident. The Mayor is reportedly scheduled to present Letterman with a lifetime “Key To The City of New York” during The Late Show’s May 20 final taping. Trouble is, members of the NYPD are refusing to provide the extra security needed for Broadway’s legendary Ed Sullivan Theater, the show’s home since 1993. “We turn away dozens of security volunteers when sports stars and celebrities show up,” says theater manager Lloyd Schuller. “But this is the first time anything like this happened. The sign-up sheet is blank.” Schuller, whose brother is an NYPD officer, told National Report “de Blasio’s really split the ranks right down the middle and it’s causing a few headaches.” Unnamed sources leaked the final show’s scheduled guest list: Barack Obama, Speaker of the House John Boehner, media giant Oprah Winfrey, actor-comedian Pauly Shore, and former Tonight Show host Jay Leno. Leno’s appearance underscores the laying aside of longstanding tensions between the two late night rivals, famously lampooned in a 2010 Super Bowl commercial featuring the pair – with Oprah Winfrey sitting between them. Winfrey and Letterman also ended a years-long feud which began in 1989 with Winfrey’s uncomfortable appearance on Letterman’s NBC show. 2014 turned out to be the year of late night host exits, as both Steven Colbert (The Colbert Report) and Craig Ferguson (The Late Late Show) ended their respective duties on December 19, with Letterman’s exit the most highly anticipated in terms of viewership. Guest stars are lining up to pre-tape farewell segments, with fans hoping for the return of veteran actor Abe Vigoda – now 93 – repeating his long-standing gag of wandering onto the set unannounced, cashing in on the urban legend that he’s been dead for years. Alternate plans for outside security are in place in the event fences between the Mayor and the police department aren’t mended by spring. “No matter what happens with de Blasio,” said Schuller, “the show’s gonna be a smash, no matter what. It’s the hottest ticket in town even if the Mayor turns out to be a ‘no show.'”