Sarah Palin Claims Global Warming Will ‘Bring Back the Dinosaurs’
Sarah Palin said today that concern over global warming is overblown because returning the climate to its state millions of years ago will allow dinosaurs to make a comeback. In an interview with Fox News, the former Alaska governor admitted that climate change will hurt some plants and animals but argued that it will also provide an opportunity for ancient, warm-weather species to thrive. "I've been hearing all this hootin' and hollarin' from the liberals about how CO2 is going up to levels we haven't seen in 5 million years," Palin told Fox and Friends' host Gretchen Carlson. "But the truth is, life was pretty good millions of years ago. "There were plenty of plants and animals back then, and they did just fine in the heat. And as Earth starts to warm up, all our old friends will start coming back. The polar bears might die off, but think of all the dinosaurs we're gonna get! "But you don't hear the liberal, lamestream media talk about that do you? All you hear is doom and gloom, the sky is falling. Personally, I can't wait to see what a triceratops looks like in real life." The overwhelming majority of scientists believe that the Earth's climate is warming due to emissions of CO2 and other greenhouse gases created by industrial activity. If left unchecked, this process could increase temperatures significantly by the end of the century and lead to increased drought, severe weather and mass extinctions  across the globe. According to Palin, however, these negative effects are outweighed by the positive, which apparently includes the dubious idea that restoring a Pliocene climate will bring Cretaceous species back to life. "Just to be clear," Carlson interrupted,  "you're saying that if some animals go extinct because it's too hot, they'll be replaced by heat-loving animals that went extinct millions of years ago?" "Well, yes exactly," Palin responded. "That's what I call logic, Gretchen. Something the Looney Left in this country doesn't understand. They're so Debbie Downer about this whole thing, they can't see the bright side." "I don't think you can actually bring back the dinosaurs," interjected co-host Steve Doocy. "Once something is extinct it's gone forever. Also, dinosaurs went extinct 65 million years ago, so your dates are a bit off as well. " "Really?" a surprised Palin inquired. "But they did it in Jurassic Park. Are you telling me that movie wasn't based on a true story?" Stunned by Palin's ignorance of basic scientific concepts, the Fox and Friends team turned the conversation to the ongoing Benghazi scandal. Palin served as Alaska's governor from 2006-2009 and was the Republican nominee for vice president in 2008.  She is currently an author and Fox News contributor.