Call Of Duty Announces 2015 Release Of “Modern Warfare 4: Operation Freedom” To Be Based On The War In Afghanistan
Call of Duty has announced the next addition to their successful franchise will be entitled Modern Warfare 4: Operation Freedom and will be modeled around the United States war in Afghanistan, similarly named Operation Enduring Freedom. Call of Duty has confirmed that the new game will be released on Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, Xbox 360, and Xbox One on September 11th, 2015. The news comes as a surprise for Call of Duty fans across the world as their 2014 game entitled Advanced Warfare was just released last month (11/4/14). According to Call of Duty spokesperson Devin McCarthy, the early announcement is due to the games projected early release. McCarthy told reporters, “We typically release our new games in November, however due to the subject matter of Modern Warfare 4: Operation Freedom, we felt the most fitting release date would be September 11th. McCarthy confirmed that Sledgehammer Games has developed Modern Warfare 4: Operation Freedom and that Activision will be publishing it. The 2015 edition of Call of Duty will begin with a cut scene of two buildings that resemble the Twin Towers crumbling and ends with the death of an Afghan militant leader that bears a resemblance to Osama Bin Laden. The majority of the game is spent battling Taliban extremists within the mountains and caves of the Middle East. When asked why Call of Duty decided to model next year’s game on the war in Afghanistan, McCarthy replied, “We are simply giving the people want they want, this game is the highest requested concept we have received for the past 10 years.” According to McCarthy, Call of Duty and Activision have received hundreds of requests to create a game centered on the war in Afghanistan every day for the past decade. McCarthy told reporters, “It honestly has a lot to do with patriotism, Americans especially, want to simulate the war in Afghanistan and kill Taliban militants from their living rooms, and we finally made the decision to give the people what they want.” According to McCarthy, players of the new game can expect enhanced graphics and a lot of advanced functionality within the games on-line platform.  Modern Warfare 4: Operation Freedom should be available for pre-order mid-2015.