“The Interview” Ignites Fierce Online Fight Between SOA’s Kurt Sutter, Seth Rogen
The internet world has been captivated by news surrounding Sony’s new motion picture, “The Interview“, after skilled hackers allegedly attempted to stop the cinema from hitting the silver screen. As we all know, the hackers, while coming very close to being successful, failed to prevent the movie from hitting theaters, and it opened as scheduled on Christmas Day. SOA’s Kurt Sutter tweeted his opinion of the movie on December 29th, 2014, igniting a fierce fight between himself and one of the movie’s stars, Seth Rogen. Sutter says in his tweet, “Watched the Interview last night. 2 thoughts: I wish it was banned. Studios have to stop greenlighting movies SR thinks of when he’s high.” This coming from one of Hollywood’s most successful writers and producers to date, is quite the insult. Sutter, who is rarely dissuaded by the opinions of anyone else, is a man who possesses a colorful vocabulary, and usually tells things like they are. Rogen replied to Sutter, saying ““@Sethrogen: @sutterink I hope not!””, to which Sutter says, “I’m not a weed guy. I prefer rage and adrenaline. Then I write while I’m in lockup.” Critics say this was the major catalyst for a nasty fight between the two, and state the battle of opinions is not yet over.  Reportedly Sutter actually feels that the hackers should have succeeded in stopping the movie, and that it’d have done moviegoers a “huge favor”; regardless of whether or not President Obama saw it as “giving into terrorists”. He referred to the movie as “garbage, done in the most distasteful of ways”. Rogen, who wasn’t slow to point out that Sutter’s most recent series highlighted murder, drugs, incest, adultery, among a whole plethora of issues most writers would never consider touching, backlashed at Sutter, saying he’d “never get paid enough to act in something Kurt Sutter wrote or produced”. We all know that Sutter and Rogen have two vastly different personalities, with writing styles that couldn’t be more opposite, but does this really mean the two should be fighting online about it like a couple of little girls? Fans, upset by the fight, set Twitter ablaze with their own arguments, some telling Sutter that “weed would be cheaper and more fun than a ticket to “The Interview”; others telling Rogen to “keep up the good work and ignore what other people have to say”. Where do you stand in “The Interview” fight? Do you agree with Kurt Sutter, or do you side with Seth Rogen? Are you neutral? Leave your thoughts in the comments below.