After Neeson Comments, All Guns To Be Digitally Removed From ‘Taken 3′
Liam Neeson, star of the ‘Taken’ film series has recently raised an objection towards the number of guns available to U.S. citizens. He went so far as to refer to the “over 300 million guns” estimated to be in America as “a [expletive] disgrace.” Neeson defended the use of firearms in the ‘Taken’ films during an interview in Dubai by saying, “A character like Bryan Mills going out with guns and taking revenge: it’s fantasy.” However, according to several sources from inside Hollywood, 20th Century Fox is going to reportedly be taking Neeson’s complaints to heart for the planned Blu-ray and DVD release of the third film in the ‘Taken’ franchise. “From what I understand, all firearms are going to be digitally removed from ‘Taken 3′ during the conversion process for home media,” said a source speaking on the condition of anonymity. The source would only confirm that they have ‘close ties to 20th Century Fox business’ and ‘know what they’re intending to do’. The source continued to say that they believed, “Fox didn’t really want to do this but are calling his (Neeson’s) bluff after the outlandish statements he made that fly directly in the face of the Second Amendment.” This would not be the first time that firearms were digitally removed from a Hollywood film. Universal’s ‘E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial’ similarly had director Steven Spielberg digitally removing the guns held by law enforcement agents and replacing them with flashlights. As digital effects expert Richard Northrop explains, “In the ‘E.T.’ instance, it was significantly easier to accomplish as there were not any scenes of the guns actually firing. Doing this kind of editing for a film like ‘Taken 3′, will be quite the undertaking due the amount of gunplay that is featured. I imagine this change will delay the release of the DVD and Blu-ray editions by several months.” Northrop also postulates that, “they may just have this digitally washed version as a bonus” on the eventual home release. Regardless, Northrop adds that, “They’ll still be able to market the home release of ‘Taken 3′ as ‘the version you’ve never seen’, as it sure sounds like it’ll be an entirely different film than the one currently in theaters.” Second Amendment advocates have begun to discuss this radical change to remove firearms from ‘Taken 3′ on social networking. William Harvell of Birmingham, AL posted on Facebook saying that, “This is a chilling effect for the rest of Hollywood to begin toning down the use of guns in film. I believe we’ll see this more and more and it will dovetail perfectly with the federal gun grab we all know is coming.” Rose Harris of Oklahoma, OK also agreed with Harvell on Facebook by saying she believes, “Obama has something to do with this. Those Hollywood liberals like Lean Nelson (sic) are all in his pocket.” 20th Century Fox has not yet issued a formal statement in regards to Neeson’s recent statements while on the press junket for ‘Taken 3′.