New Video Game Encourages Players to Hunt Christians and Jews
Although it is not due for release until December, Christian and Jewish groups are up in arms about the latest version of a first person shooter video game that encourages players to hunt Christians and Jews. Battlefield Allah, developed by the group “One Nation Under Allah” and video game publisher Univision Arts, was recently premiered at a gaming convention in Germany. The storyline is built around a Muslim character attempting to convert Christians to Islam using various methods, often brute force. Combining the visuals of typical first person shooter games with the functionality of games like Grand Theft Auto, Battlefield Allah provides a world in which players are free to chase, capture, kidnap, kill, and torture presumed Christians and Jews. Religion aside, the rest of what was shown of the game’s singleplayer campaign looked amazing. The visuals are stunning and the gameplay looks varied with an emphasis on player choice. The demo showed the player having the option to stealthily avoid and neutralize enemies, using surprises to disarm and detain them with handcuffs, or to engage in blistering shootouts. One scene even showed players paying off would-be suicide bombers to target larger events. Conservative broadcaster Glenn Beck railed against the video game maker during his broadcast. “Let’s go to the game that has just come out that makes American constitutionalists and Christian people the enemy. And you can go and shoot them,” Beck said on his radio show. “Anybody have a problem with this?” American Muslim Ahmed Mohamed Usman, founder of the group One Nation Under Allah, claims the game is not meant to promote division, rather to highlight the depth of Islamaphobia and the way in which Muslims are being portrayed on the global stage. “What we came to realize is that most of these types of video games target terrorists and those terrorists are often portrayed as Muslims. Christians and Muslims are very similar in a majority of their beliefs, so we wanted to turn the tables and provide players the experience to target terrorists who are Christians and/or Jews. To date we have received roughly 800,000 pre-orders and are looking to have the game released just in time for the Christmas shopping rush. We have received negative feedback, but the game has been well received in the gaming community”, said Usman. Battlefield Allah is scheduled for release in December 2015 on the Xbox 360, Xbox One, Playstation 3, Playstation 4, and PC.