Obama To Draft Public Assistance Recipients In Fight Against Ebola
he TSA has already been stretched too thin with the constant threat of ISIS and Al Qaeda,” said a source from inside the executive branch. “Expecting them to be able to process and screen hundreds of travelers at ports of entry is unrealistic. With the threat of an Ebola outbreak growing by the day, the government needs a massive amount of workers that can be quickly trained and deployed to deal with potentially infected individuals.” It is expected that the executive order will apply to the variety of public assistance programs provided by the federal government. Our source inside the White House did not specify if individuals who applied for health care via the HealthCare.gov website would also be subject to this draft of volunteer workers. As of now, the assumption is only adults aged 18 and over will be subject to this draft, however that could change as the situation regarding Ebola changes. “The President is doing everything in his power to prevent this disease from spreading into a full-blown outbreak. When faced with the issue of manpower to help corral Ebola, several of his advisors suggested looking at the public assistance enrollment and pull from there,” added our inside source. Vice President Joe Biden is reported to have supported the idea by suggesting “…it’s time for these Americans to give something back to their country”. He also allegedly said that President John F. Kennedy’s “Ask not what your country can do for you” quote was apropos in a situation like the one the country is currently facing in regards to Ebola. It is anticipated that recipients on disability will be placed according to their strengths and abilities. “No one will be asked to do anything that they are physically incapable of doing. Only so many people will be needed on the front lines to assist the potentially infected. There is a great deal of paperwork that will be need to be filed and processed. We’d prefer not to burden the full time employees of the federal government with the additional work,” concluded the source. Right now, the screening of potential Ebola patients is being conducted at four to five of the United States’ major airports. Obviously, this order by the President is putting a safeguard into place in case that need expands or if screening is ruled necessary at all points of entry across the nation’s borders.