Mel Gibson’s Daughter Marries a Jewish Man
The daughter of actor and noted anti-Semite Mel Gibson married a devout Jewish man over the weekend. In a ceremony Saturday at the Temple Emmanuel of Beverly Hills, 36-year-old Mary-Catherine Regina Gibson married 42-year-old Ezekiel Sharon, a prominent record producer. The couple has been secretly engaged for two years and are planning a long honeymoon in the south of France before meeting up with relatives in Israel. Mary-Catherine has reportedly already converted to Judaism. Mel Gibson was asked about the surprise nuptials during an interview with E! News this morning while promoting his upcoming documentary on how the Rothschild family killed Abraham Lincoln. The acclaimed actor and director said that although he is disappointed in his daughter's decision, he hopes that eventually she will see the error of her ways and get a divorce. "You know I've got nine kids," Gibson told E! anchor Melana Scantlin. "So I guess it's not surprising that one of them turned out to be a complete f*****g loser. But when I think about all the time and treasure I put into that one: the Catholic school tuition, the monthly private jet to Lourdes, the rosaries made of diamonds ... and then she goes and does something like this? "I can tell you one thing: that greedy little challah lover is not getting one god damned cent of my money. I've worked too long and too hard for that. Too long and too damn hard. Let's hope this doesn't last." Mel Gibson has faced accusations of antisemitism since a 2006 incident in which he infamously told a police officer that "the Jews are responsible for all the wars in the world." Mel's father, Hutton Gibson, for his part is a radical traditionalist Catholic who has flirted with Holocaust denial and promotes various conspiracy theories involving Jewish people. Although Gibson fils has never used such language himself, he came perilous close today when asked why he though his daughter had chosen to defy him. "They're all in on it," he proclaimed. "Emmanuel, Redstone, Eisner, Spielberg, Geffen -- all the big Hollywood Jews got together and arranged this marriage just to try and screw me over. It's not enough they destroyed my career by blacklisting me from good projects, now they're out to destroy my family too. "I should have seen it coming. It's all so clear now in hindsight. But that's the thing with these guys. They're sneaky. They hit you when and where you least suspect it." In a statement released though the groom's publicist, the newlyweds responded to Mel's unhinged comments. "We're sorry to hear that Mary-Catherine's father disapproves of our union, but lucky for him he now has several psychiatrists in the family though his daughter's in-laws. Feel free to stop by any time free of charge." LISTEN to one of the couple's wedding songs,  "Mel Gibson's Daughter," by the Paris-based Bam! Carousel.     