Victoria’s Secret Racy-But-Impractical Underwear TV Show Ratings Are In
Men across North America hastily changed the channel and told their wives and girlfriends they were watching “nothing” last night during the annual broadcast of the Victoria’s Secret Fashion Show. But it seldom worked it seems. Rick Millard of Kamloops, BC, was amongst the many men who watched while their wives were in the other room. He semi-complained that “It happens every year! They put supermodels on TV in underwear and I get in trouble for wanting to watch!” His wife walked in at the half-hour mark of the broadcast and Millard quickly tried to switch back to the NBA game, but it was too late. “Satellites have that damn delay when ya switch the channel and I paid the price.” Rick’s wife Donna asked him why he was watching the show and Millard wisely shrugged and avoided eye contact. She then went on a five-minute rant about the “disgusting event” and asked whether those “skinny, boney women were what men really wanted?” Millard correctly answered that Donna was all he wanted and got himself out of hot water, at least until next year’s show. Jeff MacEachern of Kanata, Ontario, was not so fortunate. He made the mistake of getting caught watching and when asked by his longtime girlfriend Megan whether he “thought those sticks with eyes were hot”, responded with a silence that was interpreted by Megan to be an affirmative answer. Despite his best pleas Jeff spent the evening on the couch. This year saw a dip in the number of cases of men sleeping on couches due to spousal conflict arising from the Victoria’s Secret Show, according to Murrough’s Polling Firm. Analysts believe this is due to an increase in the number of men recording the broadcast on PVR to be watched at a later, safer time. Today (known in the retail world as “Apology Thursday”) was a busy one for florists around Canada and the US as men everywhere attempted to charm/buy themselves out of the doghouse. Mr. MacEachern stated that although he had learned his lesson, he doubts he will change his viewing habits next year. “I regret nothing,” he stated before stepping into the local jewelry shop.