Amish Preacher Invents Electronically Activated, Inflatable Breast Implants
In a bizarre turn of events, a Lancaster, Pennsylvania Amish preacher has been shunned from the Amish community for inventing and performing surgery on his wife, giving her electronically activated adjustable breast implants. Bishop Samuel Zook, 45, had been secretly working on his invention for several years.“My wife Hannah had always wanted larger breasts,” Zook said during an exclusive Empire News interview yesterday afternoon. While also being the bishop of the small Amish community in which they lived, Zook was also known as ‘The Amish Doctor’ among church members throughout the state of Pennsylvania, who specialized in performing emergency operations on traumatic injuries occurred by the Amish in their various labor trades.“I knew it was wrong but I began to tinker around with the idea about ten years ago after confiscating a remote-control car from one of the Amish children at the church. I was amazed by the contraption and took it apart to see how it worked. I began applying the technology to things around the home as a joke to my wife. One thing led to another, as one might say,” said a laughing Zook.“One night my wife and I were drinking bourbon and I joked to her that maybe I could give her bigger boobs and make them inflatable using a remote control so that nobody would notice out in public. Hannah giggled and asked if I could really do it. It then became a quest of mine. I knew if word got out it would be the end of our Amish lives but it was worth it to us,” said Zook.After about ten years working on his invention, Zook finally perfected what he  now calls ‘”The Zook Boob Pump.”  He then performed the surgery on his wife successfully, and they were amazed at how wonderfully the breasts turned out. He combined a synthetic plasma, which he also invented, with an electronic device that when combined with air inflates the breasts.“Oh boy, she loves them – and I love them too! We have a lot of fun with her breasts!” said Zook. In fact, the couple were so proud of the invention that it led to their shunning from the Amish community.“I just couldn’t help myself,” said Hannah Zook, 42. “I wanted to see the look on the other men’s faces around town as they drooled over the sight of my wonderful breasts, so I began to gradually expose more and more cleavage. Eventually the secret got out because we were so proud that my husband could create something so wonderful. We didn’t care about banishment at that point, so we eventually told the truth, got shunned, and moved away,”  Said Mrs. Zook.The couple have since moved to a new home on the outskirts of Lancaster, and Samuel Zook has sold his invention to a New York doctor for what he only will say is ‘A substantial amount of money.’“We are set for life,” said Zook. “We’ll still practice our religion, we’ll still do our own thing, we just won’t do it within our old community. We’ll do it instead in this multi-million dollar home. God understands.”