Ann Coulter On Syria: ‘Why is Gassing Arabs a Bad Thing?’
Conservative commentator Ann Coulter generated fierce criticism today for suggesting that the gas attack in Syria last month was good for the United States. In an interview with Fox and Friends this morning, she argued that since the victims were Arabs such attacks would reduce the number of future terrorists and that therefore president Obama shouldn't intervene to stop them. The incident started when anchor Steve Doocy asked Coulter why she is opposed to Obama's intervention in Syria when she was supportive of Bush's intervention in Iraq. "Someone needs to explain to me why gassing Arabs is such a bad thing," she replied. "I mean aren't these the same people that attacked us on September the 11th? Look, the system is working. Arabs are killing Arabs and that means in the future there will be fewer of them trying to kill us. "I say we send them all the chemical weapons we have, and let them sort it out amongst themselves. Hopefully when it's all over we'd be left with some empty space to colonize. Personally I'd like to see megachurches and Home Depots outside Damascus." Coulter is well known for making outrageous, contrived statements in order to increase her book sales. In the past she has attacked Sept. 11 widows, compared liberals to the Ku Klux Klan and and walked out of a screening of Star Trek because it had "too many minorities." But today's outburst was too much even for the conservative Fox and Friends team, who instantly challenged Coulter's logic and called on her to retract her statement. "Well Ann, now you know we love you," said co-host Brian Kilmeade, "but don't you think that's a little short sighted? I mean it seems to me like you're advocating genocide. How can you possibly defend that position?" "Brian this isn't genocide," she retorted. "This is more like in Breaking Bad when Walt sees Jesse's girlfriend choking on her own puke and doesn't help her. It's not murder. It's just enlightened non-interference." "Yes, but these are innocent human beings caught in the crossfire of a terrible civil war," Kilmeade persisted. "Don't you feel any empathy for them at all? I mean Arabs are just as human as we are and should be entitled to the same level of dignity and respect, right?" Not knowing what to say, Coulter sat silent for 20 agonizing seconds before finally responding: "That's some liberal bullshit Brian. Where'd you read that? The New York Times?" Coulter is most recently the author of Mugged: Racial Demagoguery From the Seventies to Obama. She holds degrees from the Cornell and the University of Michigan Law School and was once engaged to marry teen heartthrob Dinesh D'Souza.