Star Wars: Episode I Flagged With Racist Warning On Amazon
“This film may depict some ethnic and racial prejudices that were once commonplace in American society. Such depictions were wrong then and are wrong today.” The Star Wars prequel has been regularly criticized for characters such as “Watto” and “Jar Jar Binks” that many feel depict thinly veiled racist overtones. While the “Tom and Jerry” cartoons have been flagged with similar warnings in the past, this is a first for the Star Wars film. “It’s about time Phantom Menace would have been a great film if not for all of the racism,” said Star Wars fan “@VaderGuy667″ on Twitter. Many other fans have taken to social media to show their support in Amazon’s recent tagging of the film. ‘Episode I’ is typically the least favorite of George Lucas’s ‘Star Wars’ films. In addition to ‘The Phantom Menace’, the following films have also been to now carry the same “ethnic / racial” prejudice warning on Amazon’s video service: Transformers – Revenge of the Fallen, Driving Miss Daisy, Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom, The Karate Kid (1984), The Karate Kid (2010), Friday, Cop Dog and The Last Samurai. “While not exhaustive, the list users on the internet have compiled seems to be a good one so far. It is great that at least one media giant is willing to call a spade a spade and warn people about these irresponsible films,” said Carl Putnam, speaking on behalf of his activist group ‘Stop The Abusive Prejudice in Hollywood’. “The racial stereotypes championed in these films is not okay. While we’d like to see these movies banned outright, a warning label is a step in the proper direction. We support Amazon whole-heartedly in taking the first steps towards censorship of objectionable film.” Amazon has not expressed their reasoning behind adding the disclaimer to the ‘Tom and Jerry’ cartoons or the growing list of feature films now tagged. While Apple’s ‘iTunes’ video service carries the warning for the sensitive content on the cartoons they appear to have not flagged the films yet at press time.