New Black Panthers Move Next to Whites-Only Town
The white supremacists planning to create a community near a tiny North Dakota town learned this week they have new neighbors -- a black separatist group. The New Black Panther Party purchased 35 acres outside Leith, N.D., the town where a white supremacist had purchased land with the intention of creating an Aryan enclave. The party -- which is not affiliated with the original Black Panthers -- is a racist group that advocates black nationalism and separatism. Craig Cobb, the 61-year-old founder of the enclave, said he learned the New Black Panthers had bought property next door when one of the members visited his run-down property and demanded to use the outhouse toilet. "I couldn't believe it, I was here first," Cobb said. "In fact, I came up with the idea of a whites-only homeland long before they came up with a blacks-only homeland. "Those blacks have been here a few days and they've already stolen something from me." Akeem Mobutu Shabazz Zulu Malik Maputo Nigeria X, a spokesman for the New Black Panthers' Fargo, N.D. chapter, said the party had purchased the land before Cobb purchased his land. He said they intend to build an independent country apart from the United States. "Once we receive our reparations for slavery, we will use the money to build a prosperous blacks-only nation here in which we will determine our will and divine destiny as a people," he said. "It is about time we had a place where proud African people comprise a 100 percent majority; a place that isn't terrible like Africa or East St. Louis." X said four members of the New Black Panthers have moved to the site, with "three or four more people" on the way. He said Cobb and his group are the ones who should move away. "Cobb is a typical white devil, trying to take what's ours," he said. "We are God's chosen people, and He chose this land for us after letting our ancestors be kidnapped and brought here." Although only seven people have moved to his land, Cobb said it was going to be difficult to convince more white supremacists to move there. "I had the brilliant idea of inviting all proud white people to move to the middle of the North Dakota prairie, where we can get away from all the Jews and mud people," he said. "Now that might not happen since those blacks moved in next door. "We are God's chosen people. We should be able to live wherever we want." According to county records, Cobb and the New Black Panthers purchased their properties earlier this year on the same day. However, both groups said they want the other to go. The attorney representing the white supremacists, David Kleinfeld, said they are willing to take legal action if the dispute is not resolved.