Black Sabbath-Dinosaur Rockers Still Threatening Our Youth
Evil dinosaur rockers Black Sabbath have been preaching the gospel of Satan for many years with no signs of letting up. Their doom laden lyrics and heavy metal excesses have delighted prepubescent boys and tawdry teen-aged goth-girls for over 40 years. The band burst on the rock scene with such albums as “Masters of Reality”, “Paranoid”, and their eponymous chart scorcher. Heavy rockers and other drug addicts have testified to the powerful influence of this band and these albums in particular. Songs like “Sweet Leaf” (pots) and “Snowblind” (coked cane) glorify and promote the use of narcotics. Other songs promote deviancy and anti-Christian behavior. “Killing Yourself to Live” (suicide), “Lord of This World” (Satan worship), and “Hand of Doom” (masturbation) are just a few. No doubt, this band of deviants have little concern for the impact on our precious youth their music presents. Guitarist Tony Iommie uses dark chord structures and evil picking techniques to lead dark musical themes designed to frighten small children and puppies while enraging parents because of the high volumes needed to absorb the full impact. Children have been using Black Sabbath music to rebel against the social order and cause numerous bedroom door pounding confrontations with parental and legal authorities. The sickening art of their album covers is so indecent that I chose not to post likenesses of them on this forum. Google them for yourself after reading this column but make sure that all women, children, and other immature minds are away from the monitor screen. Be prepared for disgusting and evil impressions of a macabre and filthy nature. It is also a good bet that drugs are consumed in the dark corners of teen-aged bedrooms while Black Sabbath music howls at high decibel, deafening their still developing ears and causing great hardship upon their futures as homework and class studies take second fiddle to the ear shattering bassed drum blasts of “Iron Man” and “N.I.B.” Also of concern is the particular messages that this hellish music contains. In the song “Children of the Grave”, kids are encouraged to hate Jesus and take up arms against the social order. “Revolution in their minds\nthe children start to march” N.I.B., which stands for “Nativity in Black”, or the birth of the Antichrist, is a morbid and horrifying song for impressionable church-going youth. “Look into my eyes, you’ll see who I am\nMy name is Lucifer, please take my hand” Parents, do you wish to be forced to explain such heathenism to your children where the evils of the world that you wish to shelter them from are exploded in their ears? I beg you answer “No.” You might be familiar with the lead singer of this operation named John “Ozzy” Ozzborn aka “the Prince of Darkness.” He has been the subject of numerous confrontations with police, parents, and decent folk since he first rose to prominence. His exploits include urinating on national landmarks like the Alamo and Statue of Liberty, drunken brawling, appalling inhumanity toward bats and doves, and open Satan worship on national television. He’s also responsible for destroying thousands of families as his own broken home was televised on reality T.V. It’s a wonder of nature and a confusing work of the Lord God that Ozzborn is still walking the earth with all of the drugs and dangerous lifestyle choices he has made. How this man is championed in the media and press is an affront to Jesus and the humanity that exists in each and every one of us. I witnessed for myself the depravity of the concert going crowd. Huge stashes of drugs and firearms were confiscated at the front gate. Prison-like security methods were needed to quell the onset of violence and corruption that was to ensue. Still, only a fraction of the contraband was seized. Incidents of drug use and gunshots were common in the lawn seating area. The permanent seated sections in front were not immune to the extensive violence, either. The concert begins with pitch blackness to encourage and ready the crowd for the actual blackening of their souls that is to commence. A terrifying chord rip of what the drugged mob rule identifies as “War Pigs” begins the debacle. The song agitates against our military and identifies the demonic actions of our enemies as a reason to embrace pacifism. “In the fields the bodies burning\nAs the war machine keeps turning\nBegging mercy for their sins\nSatan laughing spreads his wings” This line is then punctuated with a wailing rite to the devil, “Oh Lord yeah!” The instrumental coda of the piece is a spiraling guitar and drums mesh that increases in speed until the mind shutters and nervous energy is expelled in a sweltering final death chord. “Fairies Wearing Boots” is a nonsensical yarn describing the bass players acid trip to stoner land. The song’s homosexual metaphor is apparent. “Yeah I looked through a window and surprised what I saw\nA fairy with boots and dancin’ with a dwarf,” Once again, Ozzborn leads the crowd in a deathly chant of “All Right Now” to announce to Satan that the souls of each and every person in the crowd is ready for the fires of hell. The crowd responds with cheers and satanic hand signs to acknowledge Ozzborn’s implications. It’s just sick how their brainwashed minds are poisoned. All of these incantations are done in front of a huge display screen which shows individual shots of the band along with dizzying satanic imagery that conjures up dark nightmarish expositions and epileptic seizures. I witnessed myself one audience member drop to the floor and convulse in spasms until security and the medical workers could carry him out. Demonic possession is invited by the harrowing power chords of their acid rock. Other pillars of the Sabbath arsenal were played which include “Dirty Woman”, “Into the Void”, and “God is Dead.” The latter being the repulsive song that the title suggests. The concert concluded with the before mentioned “Children of the Grave” and the paranoia inducing “Paranoid.” As always, my music warnings are presented with a plea to parents to review their son’s and daughter’s activities and choices of entertainment. Please do not allow them to listen to this band. A thorough search of their ipod devices and laptop Bing histories will reveal such choices. If any music from Black Sabbath is found to be consumed by your children, it is your responsibility as a parent to immediately destroy the media and call your local church to arrange for counseling. Worst case scenarios call for the expulsion of demons from their bodies through holy ritual. With the diligence of parents and musical resource groups, this kind of garbage can be eradicated but know in your heart that Satan’s work is persistent if anything. Please help rid the world of this element. Your donation/gift of $20 dollars will be used by myself to fund future exposures of this and other threats to our youth. In closing, I would like to leave you with a bright note so I thank you for reading this article and say to you, “God Bless all of you. We love you all.”