Postal Carrier Brags About Having Outlasted Eight Different Pedometers
Veteran mail carrier, Jack Brinkman, is not bashful in sharing tales about his near superhuman abilities he’s put on display during his nearly 20 years as a postman.  Word on the street is that this has not made him the most popular character down at the station.  He has respect for his peers but doesn’t believe that any of them are on par with his work ethic or athletic ability.  And anyone other than a postal carrier, well, they simply do not measure up. “I have to snicker when I hear about these office types who sit in a chair all day and then go walking during their lunch hour,” says Brinkman.  “They think they’re getting their exercise for the day?  What a joke.  I’ve had my peers and family give me pedometers throughout the years because they thought it would ‘be fun to see how far I actually walk on my route.’  I’ve had 8 different models of pedometers throughout my career and they’ve all broken down before I did.  There is not a machine or a human that can keep up with me.  I’ve sent letters to Olympic champions and personal trainers, inviting them to try and keep up with me but no one has taken the bait.  They don’t respond because they know they would lose.  I am a postal carrier and more than likely the greatest athlete on the planet.  Marathon runners don’t run a race in the middle of an ice storm.  I do.  Ask my customers if they have ever gotten a message saying, ‘Jack will not be delivering your mail today because there are 12 tornado warnings in the area.’  Never has happened and never will.  I had a dog bite a chunk out of my calf one day and still completed all of my deliveries.  Mr. office boy would take a sick day to go to the hospital but not me.  I not only have to be in phenomenal physical shape but mentally I have to be prepared to move through any conditions.  People need their Victoria’s Secret catalogs and the care package of brownies from Grandma Emmy.  So feel free to give me more pedometers for gifts if you like but they will only die.  I have that effect on any person or device that tries to keep up with me.” We asked Brinkman about how the Internet seems to be making postal delivery more and more obsolete.  “The Internet is a fad that will fade away just like Fedex, UPS, and all of those pedometers that perished at my side,” continues Brinkman.  “They will all become things of the past.  All that will be left after everything goes away is your trusted letter carrier, Jack Brinkman, walking the streets as the greatest United States postal employee of all time.  There was a time when pet rocks were going to be the invention that changed the world.  How’d that work out for everyone?  Go to Vegas and bet all of your money that Jack Brinkman will be delivering mail tomorrow and the day after that and the day after that.  It’s the surest bet you will ever make and you will become wealthy beyond your wildest dreams.”