Critics Confirm Charlie Sheen’s Return To Two and A Half Men
During an interview with Ellen DeGeneres last Friday, Ashton Kutcher didn’t have to say anything to prove that Two and a Half Men producer Chuck Lorre plans on rehiring Charlie Sheen to the cast of the show. Rumors have swirled around the internet for months, and there is now finally confirmation of Sheen’s long awaited return to the show. Sheen was fired from Two and a Half Men in 2011, after making controversial public rants against Producer Lorre. He eventually sued CBS, the Warner Bros Studio, and Lorre himself for his dismissal from the show. His character, Charlie Harper, was presumed dead in the storyline, as Lorre had to devise a quick way to write the character out; though fans never really saw proof of the character’s demise. He has told TV Guide that he is up for returning to the long-running series, and other sources say he’s admitted that he actually is returning. Jon Cryer, who portrays Sheen’s younger brother Alan Harper in the show, reportedly expressed much excitement about Sheen’s return, stating he “literally cannot wait” to “reunite with Sheen” and “begin filming the final episode”. Critics report that Lorre plans on reintroducing Sheen into the cast for the final episode of the series, further confirming Cryer’s allegations. Rumor states that the production team has decided that the character’s death never occurred; that he was only presumed to be dead by the other characters, yet has been alive the throughout the past three years. While it sounds a bit like how a soap opera would play out, CBS spokesperson Ameera Lindley says the strategy “makes sense”, as it is incredibly difficult to bring people back from the dead on television. While AMC’s The Walking Dead did it with the character of Beth Greene, it’s a bit more difficult to pull off within a half hour prime-time family show. The facts are, that fans never saw anything that proved the death of Charlie Harper. The only thing that hinted at the character’s death within the show was a mock-funeral, and some ill-fated dialogue to remind us that he once existed. Producers have poorly attempted to bring back the memory of Charlie by writing his supposed-daughter into the cast, however, fans have seen it as a major fail. National Report Staff attempted to reach out to Sheen personally for comment; his response? “Winning!” Two and a Half Men fans may just have to be patient, and await what Charlie Sheen does next. According to our sources, the wait won’t be long.