Rev. Al Sharpton Organizes Boycott of ‘Stop & Bisque’ Café
Activist/opinion show host Rev. Al Sharpton plans a protest march in front of what he believes is an offensively-named Upper East Side café, Stop & Bisque. Sharpton feels the name is a deliberate play on words of the NYPD’s controversial practice of “Stop and Frisk.” “It’s outrageous!” boomed ‘Rev. Al.’  “I’ve marched against this before, and I’ll march against it again!” The NYPD’s controversial ‘stop-and-frisk’ policy legally allows police officers the freedom to “stop, question and frisk” anyone who they suspect may be in possession of illegal contraband or firearms.  Critics, including Sharpton, have pointed to the disproportionately high number of African-Americans and Hispanics who are targeted. The 59-year-old minister, activist, and organizer spoke from the set of his MSNBC news and opinion show, Politics Nation. “Is this somebody’s idea of a joke?” asked Sharpton.  “Racial profiling is no joke,” he said. “In this climate of tension we have here and all across the country, young African American men are targets.  They’re stopped on the street for no reason at all, solely based on the color of their skin.  It’s insulting and it’s degrading,” added Sharpton. Café owner Martin Samuel was caught by surprise when he learned of the protest. “I heard about this on the news,” said Samuel.  “There’s nothing racial about it.  You have Stop & Shop [supermarkets] all over the place.  Is Sharpton against them, too?  All I want is for people to literally stop, come in, and have some soup!  I’m not even open yet!” he added. For years, ‘stop-and-frisk’ has provoked sharp debate.  Former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg was a staunch proponent of the plan, while current Mayor Bill de Blasio used the divisive law as a major topic during the 2013 mayoral campaign.  Last June, the Mayor announced a settlement agreement with civil rights lawyers who agreed to court-ordered policy reforms. “Unless they change the name of the café – bistro – whatever it is,” said Sharpton, “we’re going ahead with our protest.” The demonstration is scheduled to begin this weekend. Samuel has no plans to change the name of his restaurant.