New Law Will Require Teenage Girls To Carry Condoms At All Times
 A new law goes into effect on Monday that will make it mandatory for teenage girls in New York to carry a condom with them at all times. The law was voted on in the election this past Tuesday, and is the first of its kind in the country.State representatives say the feel that this is the best solution to a problem that seems to have no other answer. A recent study by the Medical Journal of New England has shown that sexual education classes are only informing 5% of the students, and researchers think this is because the other 95% are to busy laughing at the words like penis and vagina during class.According to several teens, most of them weren’t even aware that they could get pregnant before becoming an adult, and most assume that STDs can only certain demographics.“I don’t think you can get knocked up until you’re in your, like, early 20s or 30s,” said Molly Hamlin, a Freshman at NY Middle School. “I don’t have sex anyway. I only give blowjobs, and sometimes anal, so I’m not really worried about getting pregnant or STDs. Besides, only sluts and skanks get herpes and stuff. This law is stupid.”The law states that up to $500 can be fined to any girl between the age of 12-20 if she is caught without having protection carried on her. State lawmakers are suggesting that each girl carries at least 5 condoms at a time, just to be safe.“Thankfully, Trojan recently announced their Trojan Juniors line, so the timing for younger kids is perfect when it comes to carrying condoms,” said Harry Sacks, a NY state representative. “This law is basically a way to let people, especially teen girls, that they need to be prepared at all times.”“I mean, I suppose it isn’t a bad idea” said Mike O’Malley, father of two young daughters. “Luckily my daughters are 6 and 8, so for the time being I won’t have to worry about this. I think educating my children myself would be a great way to avoid teenage pregnancy, but with this new law taking effect, by the time that topic comes up, I’ll get to avoid that awkward sex talk all together,  so it’s a win-win.”The law specifically talks about teen girls, and teenage boys will not require to carry any type of protection. Lawmakers say they feel that boys don’t have as much of an urge to have sex in their teenage years, and that girls need to learn to be ‘more prepared.’