Kanye Sues Weird Al For Not Parodying His Music
Kanye West has sued Weird Al Yankovic for not parodying his music. In a suit filed this morning in a Los Angeles Superior Court, West seeks $20 million, claiming “severe mental distress” after not being parodied on Yankovic’s latest album, Mandatory Fun. West claims the omission from Yankovic’s album has caused him to “barely find the strength and focus to work on his genius music.” “I just can’t comprehend how anyone can parody music album without including the greatest solo artist that's ever lived,” West told Rolling Stone magazine. “Yeezus is the greatest album of all time. To parody Pharell is just foolish. Pharell is a parody of himself. Have you seen his hat? That hat alone is an offense to fashion and I know fashion, I’m the greatest fashion designer of all time. “Not since Malcolm X has someone been persecuted like this.” Kim Kardashian West, who recently wed the hip-hop star, wrote in a caption on Instagram under her latest beach leg selfie, “Not only did Weird Al offend my husband, he also offended me with his song ‘Tacky.’ I take personal offense to the T-word. It’s like much more offensive than the C-word. Ya know, college. #NoFlexZone.” About an hour later she tweeted at Weird Al, “I wish I had your hair. What products do you use? @AlYankovic.” Yankovic has yet to answer, which is because he’s been insanely busy after the monstrous success from his album while Kim recently broke the World Record for the number of selfies taken. Al Gets Weird With It Al Yankovic, promoting his critically acclaimed album, told Ryan Seacrest of Los Angeles’ KISS FM, “He’s got to be kidding, right? How can you sue someone for not doing anything? Unless you’re the U.S. Congress, that doesn’t work in real life.” “After seeing what happened when Seth Rogen and James Franco parodied 'Bound 2,' why would I submit myself to that? Besides, I parodied West’s 'Gold Digger' in 2006 and he threatened to sue me. You can’t win with that guy. The rest of the family I wouldn’t touch with a 10-foot pole.” Kris Jenner, Kanye’s mother-in-law, attended the charity Minks for Mutts where they gives fur coats to dogs in need. When asked about the lawsuit, Jenner smiled and said, “It really is just so sad. My poor daughter, my poor son-in-law, my poor granddaughter. I know. Can you believe I have three grandchildren? Do I look old enough to be a grandmother? I do? I need to fire my doctors. Wait, what were we talking about again? Oh! Make sure you buy Kim’s new video game!” As Weird Al’s album soars to No. 1 on the Billboard charts, Kanye couldn’t help but be Kanye. He tweeted, “If it wasn’t for my lawsuit @AlYankovic wouldn’t be #1. I turn everything to gold. I even turn water to gold. I am gold.”