Sarah Palin: Send Immigrants ‘Back Across Ocean’ to Mexico
Sarah Palin said today that illegal immigrants from Mexico should be put on boats and sent back across the ocean to their home country. In an interview with Fox News tonight, the former Alaskan governor was asked about President Obama’s new plan to partially legalize some of the estimated 11 million illegal immigrants in America. Palin dismissed the president's idea as “amnesty” and offered an  unconventional solution of her own. “If I were Obama I’d put all 11 million of these folks on boats and send them back to Mexico,” she opined. “The liberal media says it’s impossible to deport that many people. But I say we can do it if we have enough ships. “Let’s commandeer all the cruise ships, all the fishing vessels and all the yachts those fat cat Obama donors own. And then let’s pack ‘em full of illegals and send these people on a one-way cruise to Mexico City. “The long voyage back across the Mexican Ocean should give them plenty of time to think about how they shouldn’t be coming here to America and jeopardizing our freedom and prosperity by breaking our laws.” In a speech tonight, President Obama announced an executive order shielding about 5 million illegal immigrants from deportation. Republicans have criticized the plan for rewarding lawbreakers and have also lambasted the unilateral and potentially unconstitutional way in which it was imposed. Palin’s deportation alternative may be impractical, however, given the fact that there is no ocean between the United States and Mexico. The two nations share a 1,969 mile-long land border, which touches the states of California, Arizona, New Mexico and Texas. Although the Texas portion of the border is demarcated by the Rio Grande river, this waterway is quite narrow and usually crossed by bridge - not on boats. These facts were not lost on host Sean Hannity, who reminded Palin that Mexico is just a short drive from the U.S. border. “Sean you're just wrong on that,” Palin replied. “I've been to Mexico many times and I can tell you it has excellent beaches. How can you have beaches and not an ocean?” Palin was the governor of Alaska from 2006-2009. She served as the Republican Party’s nominee for vice president in the 2008 general election.