Kim Kardashian Launches Big Booty Doll
Kim Kardashian has released a Barbie-like doll that features the contours of her own oversized backside. The Klassy Booty Doll I is a replica of Kim’s infamous Paper magazine shoot and is dressed in her signature black sparkly evening gown, gloves, pearls, a topknot, and even comes with a prop champagne bottle and flute, which can be balanced on the doll’s butt. Now available for the holidays, the doll retails for $69.99 and is only available at Dash stores or through Dash.com. The website is offering free shipping until Dec. 12. “Barbie dolls really have unrealistic proportions. I’m really hoping my doll will help young girls of all shapes and sizes to love the skin they’re in!  My proportions really are attainable! All you need is a good doctor, a custom Kardashian corset, and a personal trainer,” explained Kim at her press conference unveiling the doll. In 2012, the Kardashian sisters were all working on a doll collection of all three of the sisters, but the dolls were never sold due to “scheduling conflicts.” “I didn’t know how to tell Khloe that her doll was basically a Ken doll with a wig,” explained Kris Jenner. “Bruce looked more feminine.” Kim was inspired to revisit the idea of a Kim Kardashian doll, after making custom Kim and Kanye dolls for her daughter North, who “just loves them.” “North is really the smartest toddler out there. So, if she loves something, that’s pretty much an indication that everyone will love it. She actually picks out all of my Instagram selfies and those have like millions of likes.” Klassy Booty Doll also comes with a mini iPhone prop to take selfies with. Owners of the doll are encouraged to take selfies with the doll and post to social media with the hashtag #BeLikeKim. “You can’t love yourself unless you take a lot of selfies,” tweeted Kim. “So know your worth.” Klassy Booty’s Haters Backlash against the large butt doll was instantaneous. Moms Against Sex In The Media (MASITM) are picketing Dash stores and trying to get the doll off of store shelves. Martha Thomas, an active member of MASITM, said, “At least Barbie had a job. What is Klassy Booty Doll’s job? Aside from having a big butt and being married to a rapper? Is that the kind of role model we want for our daughters? We might as well start teaching them that if your career as a stylist fails, just make a sex tape.” Regardless of the protests, this doll still will be available for the holidays, and it makes the perfect stocking stuffer. For $29.99 a customer can buy an extra wide stocking to fit the plastic butt.