This California masker is front and center in the presidential race right now . Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump moving toward calling it a terrorist attack . A new poll shows trump sumplging to his biggest lead yet . Jon Karl tracking that from Washington . Reporter : President Obama has not yet called Tuesday ' s mass shooting terrorism . The candidates vying to replace him have left little doubt , they ' re calling it terrorism . Hillary Clinton said whatever the killers motivation in San Bernardino , stricter gun control should be the priority . We ' re trying to protect , protect our fellow Americans . People like you and me who went to a holiday party at their place of work . Reporter : The white house agree . But acknowledged that the president ' s gun proposals would vice president prevented this take because the guns were bought legally and the shooters had no known criminal record . Why the kind of immediate fall back to congress needs to pass more gun legislation ? Because the president is determined to ensure that these kinds of incidents , of mass shootings , aren ' t considered routine . Reporter : Cow just acknowledged these proposals wouldn ' t have prevented this ? We ' re talking about future incidents . Reporter : Donald Trump ventured that the mass shooting may help him in the pols . Sadly , every time , every single time there ' s a tragedy , my poll Numbers go up . Because they feel that I am going to take care of them and they feel they want strength . Reporter : And there is a new poll out this morning that shows Donald Trump with his biggest lead yet . It ' s a CNN poll of republicans nationwide . Puts Donald Trump with 36 of the vote . A lead of 20 points . The poll also puts one time front runner Jeb bush way at the back with just 3 . Important to point out , though , Amy , this poll was conducted before the shooting in San Bernardino . Jonathan Karl , thank you . George will interview Hillary Clinton and Jeb bush live this Sunday on " This week . " Let ' s turn to Tom llamas with
