Noam Chomsky to Join Fox News as Host
  U.S. scholar and political activist Noam Chomsky, known as a vocal left-wing critic of the United States government and its foreign policies, announced today he is quitting his activism and joining Fox News as a host and conservative pundit. In a statement posted on his website Monday morning, Chomsky wrote that he has decided to abandon left-wing political activism due to “personal finance concerns” and to join the right-wing network as a co-host of the “Fox & Friends” morning show. Chomsky, a linguistics professor at MIT and philosopher, has described himself politically as an anarchist and socialist. He scathingly critiqued the news media in his 1988 book “Manufacturing Consent.” However, the 84-year-old wrote that he was frustrated at being ignored by the American news media and the public, which he said had largely failed to grasp his message. “I’ve spent over 50 years of my life fighting against aggressive militarism, war, economic imperialism, corporate exploitation, a passive news media and various other issues,” he wrote in the statement.  “It’s pretty obvious I’ve wasted my time. I’ve therefore decided to stop swimming against the current and join the conservative cause, which anyhow seems to have a much bigger, more loyal audience." Profit Over People Fox News confirmed that Chomsky has signed a multi-million dollar deal to co-host “Fox & Friends", alongside current co-hosts Steve Doocy, Gretchen Carlson and Brian Kilmeade. The network said Chomsky will also provide regular commentary for its other shows, including “The O’Reilly Factor,” “The Five” and “Red Eye w/Greg Gutfeld.” “We look forward to welcoming Noam Chomsky to our family,” said Fox News President Roger Ailes. “We think he’ll help our network in its mission to provide fair and balanced news coverage.” In a telephone interview with The Daily Currant, Chomsky said he is excited at the possibilities as a conservative writer and pundit. "As a conservative pundit, my books are guaranteed to get top spots on the bestsellers lists. I'll also be writing regular columns for Brietbart and TownHall. “Understand that guys like Glenn Beck, Sean Hannity and Rush Limbaugh get millions of dollars for spouting nonsense. As a lefty I did lots of thoughtful research and couldn't even get on CNN. Democrats ignored me. I had to go on Pacifica Radio, which has more tongue-studded interns than listeners. "But now I can become a star. I already have my first book outlined. It's called 'INDOCTRINATION: How Liberals Are Brainwashing Your Children to Hate Church, the Soldiers, NASCAR and Cracker Barrel.' " Chomsky said he considered becoming a moderate liberal and joining CNN or MSNBC, but ultimately decided right-wing media was too lucrative to pass up. Chomsky dismissed the idea he might be viewed as a sell-out, noting that the only person who ever promoted his work was Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez, who is "not gonna be around much longer.” Chomsky said he is also resigning his position at MIT. “Like my good friend David Horowitz points out, U.S. colleges are loaded with scientists, researchers and philosophers. I can't afford to associate myself with those types if I want to be considered a serious conservative thinker.” A spokesperson for MIT confirmed Chomsky had met with university officials to discuss future plans but declined to provide further details.