Director James Wan Announces Justin Bieber To Fill Paul Walker’s Role In Fast & Furious 8
Hollywood is abuzz with news that bad boy Bieber will be filling Paul Walker’s shoes in the upcoming Fast & Furious 8. It was announced yesterday by director James Wan that Justin Bieber, the 19-year-old pop superstar, will take on the role of the late Paul Walker’s character, Brian O’Conner. I spoke with an undisclosed source in the Bieber camp who confirmed Wan’s announcement, adding that the young star has been “bulking up” in preparation for the role. “Justin’s currently training 5 days a week to acquire the physique that director James Wan is looking for. He’ll be acting alongside much more physically imposing actors such as The Rock and Vin Diesel so it’s important that Justin’s body be up to par.” Apparently Bieber’s PR folks hope that by squeezing the baby-face singer into a well-known action franchise, they can then revamp his image as more of a “tough guy”. Regardless of Bieber’s physical prowess, or what shtick the company executives might happen to saddle him with, it is highly unlikely that fans of the franchise will accept Bieber in the new role. This is especially true when taking into consideration that JB will be occupying a bit previously held by the much beloved actor, Paul Walker, who died in a tragic car accident. Last year Bieber claimed to have retired from the music industry after accusations surfaced that he was responsible for a female fan’s suicide. Reports state that while on vacation in Australia, Justin Bieber allegedly called the teenager a “beached whale” which ultimately resulted in the girl taking her own life.   The scrawny, chicken-necked punk has done more to damage Canada’s reputation than Rob Ford and Nickleback combined. He has lowered the bar for mainstream music to such a degree that any ole’ Nickie Manija youtuber can carve out a niche. Worst of all is the psychological damage he’s caused a plethora of young girls, which will undoubtedly create a wasted generation, awash in Casey Anthony clones. I can then only be left to speculate that Justin Bieber is backed by a syndicate whose primary goal is to destroy every facet of American culture. It’s clear by their actions that they now have their sights set on the silver screen. Why else would Bieber’s handlers attempt to create such discontent in the wake of Walker’s horrific demise by attempting to force someone of such lowly calibre into his shoes? It is like adding insult to injury and if Americans have even a morsel of cojones left dangling in their tighty-whities they will put their foot down say enough is enough!