Obama Issues Executive Order Granting Amnesty to Illegals who Enroll in Obamacare
Lacking congressional backing to provide a path to citizenship for the nations 7 to 20 million illegal immigrants, as well as the thousands flooding the Texas border, President Obama is imposing his policies directly on the people through the use of executive orders. Multiple news outlets are reporting of an Executive Order signed this afternoon by President Obama that grants amnesty to illegal immigrants who enroll in Obamacare. In a desperate act to save the President’s signature piece of legislation and inflate the already exaggerated number of supposed enrollees, Obama pandered to the Latino community in order to secure what would potentially be a large voting block.  Since a majority of Obamacare recipients receive state subsidies already the result is essentially free health insurance for undocumented immigrants as well as a path to citizenship. “This is a huge day for the Latino community.  After years of inaction by the President and Congress, President Obama has stepped out a limb and offered an olive branch to the Latino community and we will not forget the efforts of the Democrats through this process,” stated Latinos for Amnesty Coalition (LAC) spokesperson Pablo Horner.  “This really is about giving people access to healthcare at the end of the day. These immigrants are already in our country, paying taxes, sending their children to schools, etc. The President’s order will give these folks the security of knowing they have the world’s greatest healthcare and will not be deported.” In addition to providing free healthcare, the White House has gone on record to sending operatives, or “Resettlement Coordinators” to the FEMA camps where illegals are being hosed to register newly arrived illegals as Democrats in order to further increase the chances of a permanent supermajority. Republicans maintain that Obama is overstepping his powers through executive order and he should do more with Congress to address the nation’s real concerns.  