James O’Keefe Arrested on Charges of Conspiracy to Commit Voter Fraud
American conservative activist and filmmaker James O’Keefe is facing charges after being arrested for conspiracy to commit voter fraud in North Carolina. O’Keefe’s arrest came only after he showed up at Charlotte’s board of election headquarters with hidden camera video evidence exposing voter registration irregularities, mostly occurring in overwhelmingly democrat controlled districts. Poll workers were caught freely handing out multiple ballots to O’Keefe and members of his team, who were never asked for proof of identity or citizenship – in direct violation of state voter eligibility laws. Even after poll watchers were told that driver’s licenses or other forms of ID were left at home or misplaced, they were allowed to register anyway. “This proves again that rampant voter fraud exists,” said O’Keefe. “I could have voted twenty times, as could each member of my Project Veritas team that accompanied me on this truth-finding mission. That translates into over 1,000 votes in one district alone. The liberals and progressives say voter fraud doesn’t exist? I’m proof that says it does. I offered myself as a living example of democracy’s loss, and I’m willing to pay the price,” he added. Fifty team members accompanied O’Keefe and fanned out over several heavily democrat-controlled districts located throughout the state. “I’m becoming more recognizable,” said O’Keefe, “because our work is being paid attention to. When I put out the word that we needed more truth-seekers for this project, the response was overwhelming. The powers that be who continue to take away our freedoms can no longer hide.” The presiding judge in the case against O’Keefe is a Clinton appointee, so O’Keefe does not expect an easy go of it. In a statement released through Project Veritas, he stated: “We chose to go to North Carolina in this election season and do the other things, not because they are easy, but because they are hard, because that goal will serve to organize and measure the best of our energies and skills, because that challenge is one that we are willing to accept, one we are unwilling to postpone, and one which we intend to win.” Last month, O’Keefe revealed the existence of FEMA-monitored Ebola cabins, an ongoing investigation he intends to address upon his release. With so many progressive-backed activities to monitor and expose, does the exhaustion factor – which has defeated so many others in the past – figure into the O’Keefe equation? “Yes, I do get exhausted,” he remarked, “but what keeps me going is the search for the truth, and the uncovering of all the lies. There’s a lot more work to be done and many more truths to tell.” O’Keefe’s arraignment will take place on November 5, the day after Election Day.