Non-Geek Hired Into Geek Squad, Causing Dissension Amongst The Team
Benji Mader makes all of the Geek Squad hiring decisions at the local Best Buy store.  He’s come under fire for hiring the first non-geek into the squad since the store opened 8 years ago.  The Geek Squad has gained a reputation for being able to fix anything electronic.  Bring them a television, phone, or computer.  They are so good at fixing it that they don’t even tell you what they did.  You wouldn’t understand. “Yeah, that’s our calling card,” comments senior Geek Arthur Reynolds.  “People count on us being smarter than they are.  There’s a lot at stake with who we choose to do this delicate job.  Benji is usually really on top of things.  I don’t know what he was thinking on this one.  The guy he hired is named ‘Stevie.’  I asked him on his first day if he’d ever been to Comic-Con and he said he didn’t really like music that much.  What the hell?  That was a huge red flag.  He has a Dell computer for Christ sake.  I asked him if he at least upgraded the processor and he told me he pretty much just uses his computer for the Internet and email.  I’m confident he’ll be fired within 6 months but think of the damage he can do during that time.” Junior Geek, Bradley Parmer, is also not sure what to think but is looking at the positive side of things.  “I was telling Stevie how ridiculously good I was getting at Call of Duty Black Ops 2 when he told me that he had a real gun.  He told me about having friends and going outside to shoot actual stuff.  He goes hunting with people who apparently just hang out and shoot stuff.  That’s kind of scary and I’m sure I’ll never do anything like that but it’s kind of cool to have that different perspective.  I like Stevie and I’m going to try and help him become a part of our team.” Benji was fired as the hiring manager and is now giving tours at a local brewery.  Stevie was fired soon after that, though he did learn how to download a ringtone to his phone by himself.  Arthur was promoted to Master Geek and now does all of the hiring. There is a quiz to pass which he believes will avert any further disasters like the ‘Stevie non-geek experiment.’