McCain and Graham Caught Together at Washington Area Motel
Senators John McCain and Lindsey Graham were spotted sharing a room together at a Washington D.C. area motel last night. The Valentine's Day tryst reportedly occurred just hours after the suspiciously friendly duo successfully blocked a vote to confirm former colleague Chuck Hagel as Secretary of Defense.  A fellow guest at the ValuStay Inn in Arlington, VA saw the pair emerge from their room around 8 a.m. this morning, and quickly snapped a picture which has since gone viral on Instagram and Twitter. The photo shows a beaming Graham and a disguised McCain watching the sun rise on the motel's balcony. The guest, local escort Rachel Posner, says she had been trying to work in the room next door but was constantly distracted by their sounds of passion. "I couldn't beleive it when I found out who it was," says Posner. "I recognized one of them as that old white guy who tried to stop Obama from becoming president. And I recognized the other one as that Southern gay dude who's always angry on CNN." Deliberative Bodies Senator Graham of South Carolina and Senator McCain of Arizona have sparked an extraordinary friendship over the past year - teaming up on several issues including the investigation into the Sept. 11, 2012 attacks on the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi, Libya. Their ever-closer relationship has caused some in Washington to whisper that the pair may be more than just good friends. "Everyone knows Lindsay Graham is gay," explains Doug Stamper, chief of staff to the majority whip. "But he can't come out because he represents a conservative Bible Belt state. The real question has been whether McCain swings both ways. "It looks like that question has just been answered." 26-year-old Posner says she would have preferred if McCain's sexuality had stayed a mystery. "Just thinking about the sounds I heard last night makes me want to give up sex for good," she says. "Which is kind of a tough situation to be in considering that's my only source of income at the moment. "I put earplugs in after I heard the one of them perform a 'backdoor filibusterer.' But they did some really gruesome stuff before that. I don't think I can ever look at an old man's penis again. " Posner says she's considering suing for compensatory damages and mental anguish.