All Black Remake of ‘It’s A Wonderful Life’ Stars Tyler Perry
It was bound to happen. First, a mixed-race version of the Broadway musical Annie, starring Jamie Foxx and Cameron Diaz, and now actor/producer Tyler Perry, best known as the tough-talking, streetwise transvestite “Medea,” has completed production of an all-black re-do of the beloved Christmas classic It’s a Wonderful Life. In this made-for-TV urban update of the 1946 Hollywood classic, Perry cast himself as main character George Bailey, while co-producer Oprah Winfrey portrays his wife, Mary. The town of Bedford Falls has become the Bedford-Stuyvesant neighborhood of Brooklyn (birthplace of rap mogul Jay-Z and heavyweight prizefighter Mike Tyson, among others). The Bailey Building and Loan Association is now Bailey’s Payday Check Cashing Store, and George meets his guardian angel Clarence – now a homeless vagrant portrayed by actor Wesley Snipes – on the Brooklyn Bridge. But wait, there’s more – much more. Rounding out the cast is Precious‘ star Gabourey Sidibe as taxi dancer Violet, James Earl Jones as the villainous Mr. Potter, and Willow Smith, daughter of Will and Jada Pinkett Smith, as youngest daughter Zuzu Bailey, who delivers perhaps the most famous line of the new telefilm: “Teacher say, every time a bell rings an angel gets his wings.” Reaction has been colorful. Fox News commentator Megyn Kelly, who last year issued an on-air apology after telling young Fox News viewers that Santa Claus was definitely white, may find herself making an apology again this year. “Is this part of the war on Christmas or is my calendar wrong and is today actually April 1? Is nothing sacred?” Veteran film critic Rex Reed was much more direct: “Just kill me,” he reportedly remarked. Perry says his new version will introduce an entirely new audience to the film, but knew his tampering with a cherished Hollywood classic would open him up to criticism. “This film influences a lot of the work I do today,” said Perry. “For people who say this version will not be accepted I say this: ten years ago no one thought we’d have an African-American family in the White House. If we can live in 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, then we can live in the Bailey House.” Oprah Winfrey added, “Growing up, my favorite book of all time was To Kill A Mockingbird, and my favorite movie was – and still is – It’s A Wonderful Life. I feel honored to be a part of this timeless, universal, life-affirming story. We’re taking a look at Mockingbird for next year!” she chirped. Perry, as owner of his own production franchise – and as such, a Hollywood outsider – can do as he pleases, but the real test will be crossover ratings. McDonald’s is the sole sponsor of the project. Tyler Perry’s It’s A Wonderful Life is set to air Christmas week 2014 on the Oprah Winfrey Network.