Palin: White House Infiltrator “Natural Mexican Fence-Jumper”
While speaking Saturday at a conservative women’s brunch in Anchorage, former Alaska Governor and 2008 Vice Presidential candidate Sarah Palin made a string of comments that many are calling racially insensitive regarding Omar Gonzalez, a Texas man who vaulted over the White House fence and ran across the North Portico lawn, making it inside the presidential residence before Secret Service agents apprehended him. “You all heard about this `Gonzalez’ guy, right? At the White House? This is a pretty funny story,” Palin said during the warm-up of her speech. “So this Mexican jumped the fence at the White House and actually made it into the building, and the Secret Service were just standing around watching him. It’s times like these where I’m glad we lost in 2008. I wouldn’t feel safe with guys like this protecting me. I’m better off protecting myself.” After briefly talking about Todd Palin’s collection of firearms, Palin went back to talking about the incident at the White House. “You have to ask yourself, though… are we surprised by this? This guy was a natural Mexican fence-jumper. I think that’s what they teach you in grade school over there in Mexico. How to pick lettuce, how to stand around outside a hardware store, and how to jump over fences. He was born to do it.” The crowd roared with laughter at Palin’s comments, so she continued pouring on the jokes. “Chances are this Gonzalez fella just wanted to thank Obama for all the handouts he’s been getting, or maybe thank him for weakening our international borders for him so his cousin Juan could get in, too. Or maybe he heard it was `taco night’ at the White House and just wanted a free lunch. That’s our America under Obama’s regime. Free tacos for Mexican fence-jumpers.” The crowd applauded Palin after her comments regarding the ordeal at the White House. She then delivered a speech about conservative Christian values where she mostly seemed to plug her online TV station. A flier for the event advertised that her speech would be about  “the role of the modern conservative woman in a predominantly male political landscape.” It is unclear what nationality Omar Gonzalez really is, or what his immigration status is. He has been identified only as a resident of Copperas Cove, Texas, which is approximately 4 to 5 hours from the Mexican border.  