Death Row Inmate Requests Progressive Dinner For Last Meal
 The Florida Department of Corrections offers death row inmates the option of requesting a final meal on the day of the scheduled execution.  Guidelines specify that food items must be purchased locally, and the cost cannot exceed $40.Inmates fill out a standard form, checking off available items from within the correctional facility’s kitchen.  Additional items from outside the prison’s pantry are allowed, within reason, as long as they do not exceed the $40 limit.Del Berkley, convicted of homicide and armed robbery in 2008, asked prison officials for something they had never seen before.  He wrote down “progressive dinner please” as his last meal, the first request of its kind.  “They were very popular when I was outside,” said Berkley.“I’d never heard of that before,” said Prison Warden Raymond Jeffries.  “I wasn’t sure what they were, so when I found out I looked around the room because thought it was a damn joke, to be honest.”Progressive dinners are structured so that each course is consumed at a different host’s home.  If the request were to be granted, special arrangements and precautions would have to be put into place to secure the safety and welfare of the hosts, their families and guests, as well as the surrounding neighborhood.“Technically, the meal isn’t costing the state any money,” said Berkley’s lawyer, Scott Shultz.   “That’s why we are pursuing what we see as a reasonable request within my client’s rights.  Yes, he committed an awful crime, there’s no doubt or justification for that.  But he is an American citizen, former taxpayer, and he enjoys fine dining in a social atmosphere.  He should be shown some humanity and dignity during his final days.”The last meal’s monetary cap mentions nothing about off-site meals.  “That’s something we should have thought about, looking back on it,” said Warden Jeffries.  “Then of course,” he continued, “there’s the issue of finding people willing to let convicted criminals into their homes, and the fact that we’d have to do a headcount once an hour.  It’s a complicated logistical issue.  I remember when my daughter got married, my wife and the wedding planner had a hell of a time just doing the place settings.  I stayed out of it.”The request was submitted to Florida Governor Rick Scott, who convened a special meeting with officials from the Florida Department of Corrections, members of the American Civil Liberties Union, and family members of Berkley’s victim, convenience store owner Martin Fales, killed during the 2008 robbery.“We wanted to respect the family of the victim, while at the same time, honor the inmate’s request,” said Jeffries.  “We don’t want to be seen as rewarding a violent offender, but in this case, and because of so much media attention on us, it looked that way.”It is precisely because of this reason that many correctional institutions have done away with the last meal request for death row prison inmates.With Berkley’s execution date fast approaching, the decision from the Governor’s office is expected soon.“I hope they allow it,” said Berkeley.  “The regular meals here are just so predictable.  Same thing, day in, day out.  It’s like you’re locked into a routine.  I just wanted a little variety — something to spice things up,” he added.