Santorum Demands Asylum in Russia, Claims ‘Religious Persecution’
Former Senator Rick Santorum arrived in Moscow today to claim political asylum in Russia. In an interview with reporters at Sheremetyevo International Airport, the Republican standard-bearer said recent pro-gay Supreme Court rulings threaten his religious freedom and he can no longer remain in the United States. "I've always been a man who puts God before country," Santorum explained to a group of assembled journalists. "I am a proud American, born and raised in the coal mines of Pennsylvania and weaned on the democratic values of Washington and Jefferson. "But I am also a Christian. And I can no longer sit idly by and allow the United States government to trample upon my deeply held religious view that marriage is between one man and one woman. "Today I intend to ask the Russian authorities to grant me political asylum so that I may live out my days in one of the few countries in the world not infected by the homosexual agenda." Russia is indeed notoriously unwelcoming to LGBT rights, and has increasingly restricted gay rights activists in recent years. There are several laws outlawing "homosexual propaganda" and last year the city of Moscow instituted a 100-year ban on gay pride parades. Russia's record on these issues has earned it the ire of human rights activists around the world, but to some its increasing homophobia has become an attraction. "For the first time in a long time, I feel like I'm home," Santorum whimpered, a tear in his eye. "No more gay pride parades, no more gay night clubs , no more rollerbladers in tight pink hotpants ... no more temptations." Santorum's move comes as the tide is turning in favor of gay rights in most Western countries. France and New Zealand have legalized gay marriage this year, and 13 U.S. states have done the same. "Moscow is hot right now in the traditional values community," says Dick Bulger of Pillar of Salt International, an organization that helps persecuted Christians flee gay oppression. "If you have a visceral hatred of homosexuals, it's getting harder to express those views openly in intolerant cities like London, Paris, Sydney and New York." Russia has hosted several high-profile Western visitors in recent years including French actor Gerard Depardieu and U.S. leaker Edward Snowden. In a statement the country's foreign minister says they have received the ex-senator's application and are following standard procedures. "We are currently researching Mr. Santorum's application," he explained. "However, an initial Google search has revealed some disturbing results and we would like to discuss these concerns with him in person."