Kris Jenner Outraged By Bruce Jenner Lipstick Magazine Cover – It’s Not His Shade!
Kris Jenner, matriarch of the Kardashian family empire, is reportedly outraged at InTouch Magazine after photoshopping lipstick onto the lips of a picture of her ex-husband, former Olympic champion Bruce Jenner. “It’s not his shade,” fumed Kris. “They got it all wrong. Those rags always get it wrong!” Rumors of Jenner’s unconfirmed plans for upcoming sex reassignment surgery (male-to-female) have bounced around Hollywood for years – charges Kris has always denied. “Yeah, well let’s all forget about that ratings bait for the moment. This magazine cover is all about optics, and I would never, ever have chosen that shade of lipstick for my husband. Remember all that oil that was on Kim’s rear end last November? That was all me, from champagne glass to canola oil – from stem to stern – that was all my doing!” Known as a micromanager, Kris juggles television producing and management duties for her four children with OJ Simpson lawyer Robert Kardashian – Kourtney, Kim, Khloé, and Robert – and her three children with Jenner – Kendall, Kylie and Krustie. “She’s knows exactly what she wants, and what she wants is not this,” according to gossip columnist Liz Smythe. “Everything down to the last detail is planned. Even the spontaneous scenes for the reality shows have rigidly-timed rehearsals.” At present, the Kardashians occupy several time slots on the E! cable channel including, Keeping Up With The Kardashians, Kourtney & Khloé Take the Hamptons, Life with Kylie and Kendall, and 19 Kardashians and Kounting. “It’s a kooky schedule,” said Smythe, “but Kris knows what she’s doing!” “Whether or not Bruce is undergoing reassignment surgery is totally irrelevant,” says Kris. “Always keep ‘em guessing, I say. ‘Sell the sizzle, not the steak’ is what my ex-husband told me when we first met at the Sizzler where I was working. I’ve never forgotten that, and I know I never will.” InTouch has no plans to alter or change the upcoming magazine cover.