Sons of Anarchy Season 8 In The Works
Only hours after FX aired Sons of Anarchy “Poor Little Lambs” (Season 7, Episode 4), Kurt Sutter allegedly teases that there is talk of a Sons of Anarchy Season 8 in the works. SOA fans all over social media have begged and pleaded with Sutter not to end the fast-paced drama at Season 7, and it appears the television kingpin is listening. Over the past few months, Sutter has been teasing fans all over Twitter and Facebook, hinting at fierce red-wedding style violence for Season 7. More recently he’s been seen dropping tweets that say “Don’t miss #SOAFX #FinalRide tonight! In 703 someone you love dies! Wait that’s 704…and 705…and 706…and…”, and “If the level of violence in #soa is bothering you at episode 703… Oy! Best start tuning into the safe backdrafts of Chicago Fire”. Just as we all thought Sutter was going to pull a Sons spinoff out of the series, rumored to be set around the Redwood Original Nine characters, we’re proven once again that we’re wrong. Admit it, when it comes to guessing the next move of the mastermind that is Kurt Sutter, we are usually wrong. Sutter has SOA fans in twisted mind game, and he wouldn’t have it any other way. In review, so far, Sutter has terminated a handful of characters from the cast. He’s eliminated Opie Winston, played by Ryan Hurst, as well as Clay Morrow (Ron Pearlman), and Tara Knowles-Teller (Maggie Siff). Don’t forget, Sutter killed off his own character, Otto Delaney. Other key characters that never saw Season 7 were Donna Winston (Sprague Grayden), Luann Delaney (Dendrie Taylor), Agent June Stahl (Ally Walker), as well as Damon Pope (Harold Perrineau), Lee Toric (Donal Logue), and Lieutenant Eli Roosevelt (Rockmond Dunbar). Character death is nothing that SOA fans are not already used to. At the conclusion of every mind blowing episode, we’re left with knowing the major characters are still there. Jax Teller (Charlie Hunnam), Gemma Teller-Morrow (Katy Sagal), Tig (Kim Coates), Chibs (Tommy Flanagan), Juice (Theo Rossi), Bobby Elvis (Mark Boone JR); they’re all still with us. Currently the storyline for Season 7 suggests that the Motorcycle Club may not survive at the hands of the Asians, but that’s merely what Sutter wants for everyone to think. Nobody wants to believe that Sutter is truly done with Sons of Anarchy, and the wishes of a continuation of the series could just be getting answered as we speak. We’ve all fallen in love with the MC like they’re our family. I don’t know about you, but I am most definitely looking forward to another year of #TellerTuesday.  