Kim Kardashian Makes $67 Million For Nude Butt Photos
Kim Kardashian earned $67 million for her nude butt photos that appeared in Paper magazine. According to a source close to the situation, $7 million was paid up front to the actress with the remaining $60 million being paid out over the next 10 years. The enormous sum of money is being paid for just one day of photography. “Our formula for the payout was very simple, a million for every pound of ass," explains super agent Jonathan Perry. "That total came to $67 million. Not bad for one afternoon's worth of work. It’s like a baseball contract for butts. I can see this taking off in Hollywood.” Kardashian told TMZ, “I know my butt’s worth and it’s a butt load. It’s my top asset.” Asked why she agreed to be photographed naked, she replied, “I’m very happy to know I’ll be leaving my mark on the world and it’s something that will inspire kids. The body is a beautiful thing and getting paid for it is even more beautiful.” Kim Kardashian recently made over $70 million from her iPhone app that lets users stroll around Beverly Hills making microtransactions for virtual goods. While she can’t program or design applications, her brand made the simple game an overnight hit. “The only thing bigger than Kim’s butt is her brand,” said Perry. “Wait until you see Kim’s next cry for attention and money. Let’s call it a butt on steroids. It will make Kanye look humble in comparison. ” Paper magazine launched in 1984 and focuses on fashion, nightlife, and other information for people in their 20s. While the focus is on New York City, it has expanded over the years via their website to reach the hip and fabulous people in major global cities. Co-founder and editor David Hershkovits told Yahoo News, “We may go bankrupt but it was well worth the risk. If you didn’t know of Paper magazine before, you sure do after this week. “We are banking the whole business on her butt.” Web traffic for their website skyrocketed and users shared the link like mad. Time will tell if the publicity for the bare body photos will serve the magazine well. Hershkovits also noted that, “Kim’s butt was a pleasure to work with. Didn’t care much for the Mom.” Although the large sum of money comes a shock to some, most Americans agree that its money well-earned. "I'm happy for her," says Nadine Johnson, a homeless mother of two living in Detroit. "I can't think of anyone who deserves it more."