Eminem Says Coming Out As Gay In ‘The Interview’ Was Not An Act
Marshall Mathers, also known by his stage name Eminem, one of the most successful rappers of all time, made a cameo in the highly controversial comedy film The Interview, in which he plays himself, announcing during an interview that he is gay. In the movie, James Franco plays the part of Dave Skylark, who has a very successful syndicated television show which gets candid interviews with such superstars as Eminem, Rob Lowe, and eventually North Korea supreme leader Kim Jong-un.According to Eminem, when asked about the movie and its dialogue, in which he nonchalantly proclaimed to be a gay man, the rapper said that he ad-libbed that whole scene himself, and that although in the film it was played like a joke, it was his way of discussing his true opinion on the matters of sex and celebrities.“Personally I don’t think a person’s sexuality is anybody’s business. I’ve rapped about sex, I’ve rapped about being gay. I’ve also written songs about shooting people. Sometimes, it’s fantasy. Other times, maybe it’s not,” Eminem said during a recent interview. “It doesn’t matter. That scene in the movie, it was originally planned as a more subtle gag, something about me being an illuminati ruler or something. I asked if I could just do my own thing with it, and Seth [Rogen, director and star] said ‘go ahead.’ He gave me the green light to come out in the movie. Maybe it was real, maybe it wasn’t. Does it matter? Should it matter?”The rapper, who has been intensely scrutinized throughout his career for using homophobic slurs, said that he just used derogatory terms to be ironic, and that his sex life is private, and that everyone’s sex life should be as public or as private as they want it to be.“After putting a lot of thought into it, I came to the ultimate conclusion that there are probably thousands, if not millions of fans of mine that are gay and living a lie. This was my way of supporting them in a way that could make people laugh, and feel good. Maybe it was my way of telling the world something that they’ve always been wondering. Maybe it was my way of telling people to go fuck themselves. Maybe it was just a movie, and people shouldn’t be questioning it in the first place. I’ve always been true to myself, and everyone else should worry about doing the same.”  