Justin Bieber Jet Refused Air Passage by France
The U.S. government is denying exerting any pressure on the French government to turn away a private jet thought to be carrying pop idol Justin Bieber. “The United States has no active file on foreign-born Justin Drew Pierre Mordecai Bieber, and does not ever threaten any government to deny air space passage to prancy singers,” said a White House spokesperson. “Mr. Bieber is free to sing and woo teenaged girls and boys anywhere in the free world.” The jet rumoured to be carrying the famous teenager departed from Munich where Bieber was visiting his pet monkey Nipples, recently seized for humanitarian reasons after it was discovered the animal had been given a “Belieber” tattoo. As the plane entered French air space, it was met by four Rafale fighter jets and forced away, finally landing in Zurich, Switzerland, for refueling. “Mr. Justin Bieber was on board and was shrieking in this very high voice,” said an anonymous Swiss border official speaking from Kloten Airport where the Gulfstream V-SP jet landed. “We gave him 10 kilos of Toblerone chocolate bars and a glow-in-the-dark Swatch and he seemed to calm down.” The French refusal to allow Beiber’s jet to travel over the country follows on the heels of the international incident that saw Bolivian President Evo Morales’ plane refused passage by France, Italy, Spain and Portugal based on reports that American whistle-blower Edward Snowden or possibly his grandmother might be on board. The U.S. has not denied pressuring European countries to turn away the Bolivian jet as they work to capture Snowden, wanted for “extremely leaky traitorish espionage”. Snowden released files showing that the U.S. National Security Agency (NSA) was secretely intercepting and recording the phone and internet communications of all Americans and Europeans in efforts to track terrorists and web-cam selfie masturbators. Young fans of Beiber flooded social media with repeated calls to boycott French fries, with one twitter fan promising to shave the tail pom-pom off the next French Poodle he sees.