Woman Comes Forward With Shocking Allegation: “I Was Not Raped By Bill Cosby”
In a shocking turn of events, area woman Joyce Taylor has broken her silence and proclaimed, “I was not raped by Bill Cosby.”  This news came on the day that two more defendants joined in the growing defamation case against the once beloved entertainer. According to Ms. Taylor, she once met with Mr. Cosby decades ago at a Hollywood night club at the age of 17.  As the night progressed, she became increasingly intoxicated before her boyfriend, 18 year-old Danny Stevens, helped her home where she awoke the next morning alone, with full memory of what had not transpired the night before.  In a sworn statement given to officials earlier today, Ms. Taylor states, “Why was I not raped by Mr. Cosby?  Was I not pretty enough?  Did I do something wrong?  I mean I may have been a bit overweight, but I was still rapeable (sic).  These are all feelings I have struggled with since that fateful night in 1974.” Bob Murphy, the attorney representing Ms. Taylor, had this to say, “I understand Joyce’s concerns, I mean she was in the right place at the right time, and feels she was entitled to be raped, but in a way, I think we have all been raped by Mr. Cosby.” Since November, at least 15 women have come forward claiming to have been sexually assaulted by Cosby.  Cosby, who starred as Dr. Cliff Huxtable on “The Cosby Show” from 1984 to 1992, has not been formally charged in connection with any of the allegations and has denied his involvement. Cosby’s career has unraveled since the allegations began and he has hired an extensive team of Public Relations experts in attempt to save what is left of his reputation going so far as to blame the victims themselves. In the years since the non-incident took place, Joyce Taylor has sought counseling and has been treated for depression. “The last forty years, my weight’s gone up and down like a yo-yo.”  When “The Cosby Show” went off the air in ’92 I got things under control, but when he came back with another show four years later, I blew up like a damn balloon.  Now he’s in the news again and I’m fighting the urge to ‘make the plate my mate.’  It’s a struggle,” admitted Taylor, “but I’m not going to turn not being raped by Bill Cosby into a negative.” It is presumed there are many more Joyce Taylor’s, possibly millions, out there waiting to tell their story of not being raped by Cosby, however as of press time National Report was unable to find any additional victims.  This development only leads to more confusion surrounding the multitude of accusers suggesting that they had in fact been raped by Mr. Cosby. Cosby’s publicist David Brokaw and lawyer Martin Singer did not immediately respond to requests for comment.