Actress Betty White, 93, Criticizes Sarah Palin’s Dog Photo: “That Poor Bitch”
Actress and animal advocate Betty White reportedly criticized former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin for allowing her son Trig to use the family dog ‘Jill’ as a kitchen stepstool, according to an upcoming interview in Dogs ‘N’ Dames, the magazine and charity that matches widowed senior citizens with companion animals. “That poor bitch,” joked White in the upcoming article, “the dog, I mean – not the Governor – I adore her. I mean Jill, their family pet she let her son stand on. I don’t approve of that at all, not for anyone. Dogs are pets, not furniture,” said White, according to a publicity aide for the charity. In the interview scheduled for publication Jan. 15, White speaks on a broad range of topics, from her decades long television career – which began in 1949 – to comments about her health, longevity and animal advocacy work. “Animals don’t lie. Animals don’t criticize. If animals have moody days, they handle them better than humans do,” White wrote in her 2011 autobiography, If You Ask Me. It is just this sentiment that has given pause to millions of animal lovers and sensitive types offering strong reactions to former Governor Palin’s family photo. “Animals also can’t speak for themselves,” says Dana Blunt, self-described animal activist and PETA supporter. “Sarah Palin assumes that her dog wasn’t abused, but the dog can’t speak for herself. She’s put words in the animal’s mouth which I consider a crime against humanity and verbal abuse.” White, now 93, is best known as ‘Rose Nylund’ from the 80’s sitcom The Golden Girls, and as man hungry ‘Sue Ann Nivens‘ in The Mary Tyler Moore Show in the 70’s. The actress and author is currently taping the 6th and final season of her latest sitcom, Hot In Cleveland. Her work with the Greater Los Angeles Zoo Association, along with other charities and animal organizations, is credited with improving zoo conditions not only in the US but also around the world. The controversy over the Palin photograph is not likely to die down anytime soon, especially after her Facebook editors shot back with the now viral “At least Trig didn’t eat the dog” comment, aimed squarely at PETA and at Barack Obama, who admitted that as a child, he once ate dog meat in Indonesia with his mother and step-father, Lolo Soetoro. As for now, the star of the show seems to be Palin family pet Jill. “Every dog has its day,” as the saying goes.