George Zimmerman Scores Role As Bad Guy In New Michael Bay Action-Thriller
George Zimmerman, the Florida neighborhood watchman who was acquitted in 2013 in the shooting death of teenager Trayvon Martin, has reportedly recently signed a big-money deal to star in a new motion picture produced and directed by Michael Bay, according to Zimmerman’s talent agent. Zimmerman, who was arrested again over the weekend on charges of aggravated assault with a weapon, will take on the role of a mass-murdering escaped convict who is executing members of his own family, who turned him in, all while the police detective who originally arrested him, played by Mark Wahlberg, attempts to hunt him down. A representative from Michael Bay’s office would not comment on the film, though one executive at Paramount Pictures claims he’s spoken with Bay several times with regards to the project. “He really wanted to get this guy [Zimmerman] and put him on film. He thinks this is a picture where everyone wins… Zimmerman wins, because he gets to fulfill his life’s dream of being a big-time action movie star. The audience wins, because let’s face it, the bad guy usually dies in these movies, so they’ll get to finally see him face some justice. And the studio wins, because hey, who isn’t going to go out and watch this film on opening day?” Zimmerman has never worked in film or television, but his agent, Dennis Altmann, says he’s confident that his client will be ready for the film. “He’s been taking acting lessons, studying films… I think he’ll be ready for anything Michael Bay throws at him. George loves action movies and he’s a big fan of Mr. Bay’s. And we know he knows how to handle a gun.” But despite Zimmerman’s alleged excitement over the project, Altmann says his client’s recent arrest does threaten to ruin his participation in the film. Zimmerman is scheduled to take part in pre-production in Los Angeles on February 12th, but has a court date set in Florida for February 17th. Also, principal shooting is supposed to begin on March 3rd in Louisiana, but if Zimmerman is found guilty, or if the trial is dragged out, he might not be able to participate in the film at all. The title of the film has not been released. Insiders claim Bay is hoping for an early 2016 release.  