Accusers Improve Bill Cosby’s Social Prominence in American Society
As God intended, the Man-Choad is a stalwart and rigid tool used to convert lesbians and professional virgins into useful, productive members of society.” – Nigel Covington,\nFeminazi – Lesbo Pride Rally\nNew York City, NY\nAugust 23, 2008  With the number of women who’ve come forward to accuse African-American icon and legendary comedian-performer Bill Cosby, of sexual assault now at 31, the 77 year-old lovingly known as “the Cos” has never had as much game as he does today. During 2014, the National Report chronicled thousands of jokes, stories and gossip that increasingly rose in number as the number of desperate and greedy women alleging the Cos had violated them nearly doubled climbing from 15 to 28. Scientist and mental health clinicians believe most women suffer from a form of Delusional Disorder (DD). Experts in the field of mental health have argued that a preponderance of white women in the U.S. secretly desire to engage in coitus with a big black hung power stud which was a cultural taboo a few short decades ago. In Cosby’s case his accusers likely suffer from being Erotomanic, a delusional disorder that centers around a person’s belief (fantasies) that someone – usually famous – is in love with the person. A common claim found in the accusers accounts is of being drugged and rendered helpless. Incapable of defending themselves they claim their clothing was ripped from their listless bodies whereupon they were raped by “America’s Dad.” The world-wide media coverage and appalling spectacle these licentious women have created with their phantasmagorical and baseless accusations has forced the Cosby phallus into the glaring spotlights of the media resulting in the unfolding story that has dominated newspaper headlines and cable news programs for over a year now. Inadvertently all the media attention and hype surrounding the Cosby sperm cannon has greatly improved the highly respected performer’s social prominence and status in American genteel society where he has been celebrated as a swank and vivacious sex-God of legend. By the start of 2015, it was evident Cosby’s stunning matrimonial peacemaker had become so popular it had clearly surpassed other famous penises including that of male porn star John Holmes, aka: Johnny Wadd. Holmes brazenly exposed his manly machismo in about 2,500 adult movies in the 1970s and 1980s. Eyewitnesses who claim to have seen the Holmes specimen state it was between 14 to 16 inches in length. Our research concluded the Cos has also surpassed basketball deity and Hall of Famer “Wilt the Stilt” Chamberlain, who traveled the world playing basketball which provided the committed lifelong bachelor plenty of time to sample the sweet ambrosia of thousands of women of every nationality and culture. Chamberlain, claimed his majestic manhood had experienced carnal knowledge with over 20,000 women. “For this to be true, he would have had to had sex with 1.14 women per day from the age of 15 up until the day of his death, a rate of almost eight women a week,” said, TopTenz. Even penis icon Milton Berle, the Emmy-winning comedian and actor who was notorious in show business for his ‘blue comedy’ as well as his enormous sinstick came up short when put up against the mighty meaty Cos. Berle’s manhood was so wildly successful that it became the subject of other comedian’s jokes that included hundreds of off-handed quips, stage and late night television parodies, comedy skits and plenty of rousing banter and even “horseplay” in the locker room at boys Catholic High Schools around the country. For the most up-to-date, fact based, hard hitting news coverage on the extortion of America’s Dad you can always trust America’s # 1 independent news source the National Report to deliver.