Chris Brown Regrets Beating Rhianna As A Bad Career Move
In an interview with The Lapine, Chris Brown reluctantly conceded that beating and abusing his then-girlfriend Rhianna was probably a bad career move.  Lapine analysts report that the star’s sales fell by almost thirty percent after the incident. This translates to a loss of almost ten million dollars over three years. “You know” Chris Brown said, “I really regret beating and biting her like that. I mean I didn’t like her but still I figured it would be good for my image to look tough. I mean 50 Cent, Akon, the other rappers, they all have tough images, even Michael Jackson who’s my hero had… well you know… I figured I needed that ghetto image as well if I wanted to sell. I was wrong it actually hurt my image”. Indeed, the public outcry against the young singer’s actions not only hurt his finances through loss of sales, but also led to his arrest and conviction. For leaving his girlfriend, the pop star Rhianna, bleeding and broken on a corner, Mr. Brown was sentenced to a full 20 hours of community service. For our non-American readers, such sentences are rarely passed out to the cultural and financial elite of the United States. Yet this case was fuzzy, as the victim was also a member of the elite of the country and therefore the harsh sentence was duly passed anyway. According to Chris Brown, the community service has reformed him. “You don’t know what it was like, working five hour days for almost a week under the sometimes hot sun. Knowing the consequences of physical assault shall certainly restrain me in the future when I feel like hitting future girlfriends.” The R&B singer went on to elaborate on the value of hard work and reflection. How his long days serving the community allowed him to grow and move past the incident. “Hell, Im totally over it now, now I can even laugh about it, it is pretty much a joke” Chris laughed. If only all such criminals could be so reformed, indeed the sales of Mr. Brown have, this year, been bouncing back to his pre-abuse levels, showing that sometimes good things do happen to good people. We at The Lapine are proud of Chris Brown for so bravely moving past the incident. Rhianna could not be reached for comment. 