Joan Rivers’ Estate to Sue Negligent Doctors for ‘Outrageous Fashion Choices’ During Comedian’s Final Hours
The doctors who were treating comedian Joan Rivers before her sudden death in September of last year, have faced another major blow. Melissa, the daughter of the 81-year-old Hollywood star, has filed another lawsuit – this time over claims of negligence in their fashion choices during the procedure that led to her mother’s death.“It’s outrageous,” Melissa Rivers is quoted as saying. “They wore these hideous matching blue outfits that weren’t even tailored to their specific builds. The shirts were baggy – which is fine if you’re hiding a big belly, but the skinny ones should really have been wearing something tighter. Something that would flatter them.”It is understood that one of the doctors took a selfie with the unconscious performer, adding fuel to the already raging fire. The leaked image showed the host of Fashion Police in an even uglier get-up – apparently chosen by the very same hospital staff.“That bandage is really sloppily tied around her head,” said former co-host, Giuliana Rancic. “It’s asymmetrical, and not in a good way. And the color! Any idiot knows that a white bandage cannot go with her already washed-out complexion.”Advocate Kevin Doleman, who is representing the interests of the deceased and her daugher, stated that he thinks they have a strong case.“We’re gonna win this,” he confidently said to reporters at a press conference on Wednesday. “There’s enough evidence that negligence led to these choices, and not medical complications as staff at the hospital have claimed. Did you see the masks they were wearing? It was like some sort of freakshow.”Doctor Lawrence Cohen, the taker of the now infamous selfie, could not be reached for comment, but a source close to him said that Cohen was “devastated” by the accusations.“It’s not like him,” the anonymous source said. “He’s a big fan of Joan’s, and always worked hard to meet her high standards. A scandal like this – now no one’s going to take his fashion choices seriously.”