Oklahoma Governor Signs Walmart Protection Act
At a time when many states and cities are passing job-killing handouts to reward laziness, Oklahoma Gov. Mary Fallin (R) has gone in the opposite direction and signed a law protecting job creators such as Walmart, Hobby Lobby, and Big Oil Corporations. The bill also bans cities and municipalities from enacting unindustrious vacation and work-free pay mandates. The law will stymie the efforts of socialists in Oklahoma City, where a group of bums has coerced prepaid politicians to handcuff legitimate business concerns by raising the rate at which they hand out benefits to torpid workers. Currently, the state’s mandated wage is within the livable index as formulated from a study funded by the Club For Growth. Socialists had demanded raising this rate while ignoring the devastating impact of such action on the state economy. At this moment, liberal operatives are planning occupation-type protests and other civil disobedience at a time when resources and funds are sorely needed elsewhere. Fallin said she signed the bill out of the worry that should these anti-progress leftists get their way, it “would drive businesses to other communities and states, and would raise prices for consumers.” She also argued that “mostly young and single people are working part-time or entry level jobs where they possess the capacity to pull themselves up by their bootstraps” and that “most high school or college students live with their parents in middle-class families and have no need for such petty ‘job-killing’ mandates.” She warned that without the Walmart Protection Act (W.P.A.), radical leftist operatives “would require job creators to fire many of those industrious workers” and harm small business.\nOpponents of the W.P.A. use sketchy studies funded by George Soros-backed Marxist promotion groups to make claims not backed up by fact. They counterclaim the typical American entry-level wage worker is 35 and more than a quarter have children to support. More than half work full time, and 44 percent (half a million) are college graduates. They have also pulled from their bag of elitist social engineering studies the notion there is no evidence that the forced minimum wage hikes affected job creation.  Oklahoma is not the only state to stand up to slothful partisans of the government nanny state. Wisconsin proponents for economic expansion and job growth recently considered doing the same. Last year, Kansas Governor Sam Brownback (R) signed a law that prevents socialist government operatives from requiring contractors to dole out wages far above that of their market worth. The abolition of mandated wages for work-free hours is not new. Constitution originalist states —Arizona, Florida, Georgia, Indiana, Kansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina, Tennessee, and Wisconsin — have banned local efforts, with seven of those passing over the last year. Other states with a “right-to-work” vision have considered similar measures, stating scientific studies that support the idea these sanctions hurt businesses and job growth.