Obama’s Anti-Government Leaflet Set For Display in Presidential Library
When the controversial Barack Obama Presidential Library opens in 2017, one item will be on prominent display: a 1975 anti-government protest flyer saved from Obama’s teenage years when he participated in a protest march – in front of the White House! Obama took part in the so-called March First Coalition, sponsored by The Indochina Mobile Education Project, The War Resistors League, and several other leftist organizations. The protest brought together a nationwide group of young community activists and provides a glimpse into the early political ideology that shaped the young Socialist who eventually assumed the office of the President of the United States. The crudely illustrated document demands amnesty for draft dodgers and features on its front a political cartoon mocking Presidents Eisenhower, Kennedy, Johnson, Nixon, and Ford. It also calls for the release of “political prisoners” held by US authorities in Southeast Asia. Former Alaska Governor and political pundit Sarah Palin took to Facebook to share her reaction: “Well, here we go again with our Socialist-In-Chief boldly throwing in the faces of the real Americans his radical ideas that began with his entry into the Chicago style political machine that eventually overtook the White House, because I guess Obama doesn’t have much to do these days but lallygag around the Oval Office and rewrite his history on the taxpayer’s dime.” Congress passed the Presidential Libraries Act of 1955, creating a network devoted to preserving the history found and often times created during presidential administrations. Many are objecting to federal funds being used to maintain a facility in which anti-American propaganda will be featured. Republican National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus brushed off the controversy by emphasizing that the newly energized GOP, still enjoying their post-midterm trouncing of the Democrats, has more important things to focus upon. “It comes down to a piece of paper going into a library that the majority of Americans won’t ever visit. We have bigger things to concentrate on, and number one is making sure Hillary Clinton doesn’t carry on the Obama legacy which clearly has been disastrous.” Library curators aren’t worried about the growing controversy. Historian and Obama expert Professor Jack Phillips said, “the biggest decision we have to make now is where to locate the library. A lot of people want Chicago, but we’ve got a big group that want us to locate it in the President’s birthplace – Hawaii I mean – not Kenya,” Phillips joked. “I didn’t mean to say that,” he added.