Charlie Sheen’s “Tiger Blood” Might Hold Cure For Ebola, Doctors Say
Hollywood star Charlie Sheen might soon find himself “winning!” a new award — possibly from the Nobel committee — after three doctors in Los Angeles, California revealed on Thursday that they believe Sheen’s blood might just hold the cure for the deadly Ebola virus. The doctors say that Sheen, 49, approached his physician on Friday, October 11th fearing that he might have “Ebola or something worse than Ebola,” and was suffering from headaches, nausea, and occasional dizziness. Despite his doctor diagnosing nothing more than a really bad hangover, Sheen “demanded” his blood be tested for Ebola. That’s when a sample of his blood ended up in a lab, where the doctors found that not only is the actor Ebola-free, but his blood is actually immune to the virus almost completely. “Mr. Sheen is immune to three out of four strains of the Ebola virus, and might be immune to the fourth as well,” says Dr. Jacob West of Cedars-Sinai Medical Center. “He’s completely immune to the Zaire strain, which is the most deadly, but our tests only show a 40% immunity to the Sudan strain. We’re sending samples to the CDC right now for confirmation of our findings, and for better lab results on the Sudan strain.” “If Mr. Sheen’s blood is immune to Ebola, that would be a pretty major discovery, because he’s never been in contact with Ebola, as far as we can tell,” West continues. “If you survive this virus, you’re immune to it. Think of it sort of like Chicken Pox, where once you’ve gotten it, you can never get it again. But [Sheen] has never been in contact with Ebola, as far as we can tell, and the chances of anyone coming in contact with all four strains is highly improbable. So either he was born with a strong natural immunity, which is completely unique, or he’s somehow built up an immunity to Ebola over the years, though we can’t be sure how. Either way, we can rather easily create a vaccine for Ebola, with his blood serving as a sort of template for us.” And slow down, late night TV hosts: the obvious jokes about drugs, alcohol, and sexually-transmitted diseases wouldn’t be scientifically accurate, as Dr. Stephanie Barker explains. “We thought perhaps Charlie had contracted other diseases, which may have caused his immune system to give him a sort of `blanket immunity’ to the strains, but he’s never been diagnosed with the diseases or viruses that might do that. It would take a lot for that to happen.” The usually boisterous Sheen has stayed tight-lipped about Ebola and the potential major discovery. His fiancé, 25 year-old retired porn actress Scottine Ross, posted on Facebook on Tuesday that she was “sick of all the doctor phone calls” and that she was “hoping Charlie makes millions off of this s—,” but those posts were removed from her page on Thursday, shortly before the doctors held their press conference.