Oregon To Eliminate State Liquor Stores In 2015
Oregon has been an alcoholic beverage control state since the formation of the Oregon Liquor Control Commission in 1933. The OLCC received exclusivity in the sale of spirits and wine and the ability to issue licenses to private companies to sell beer and wine. As such, in 2014, the only place that hard liquor can be purchased is in one of the OLCC ‘State Stores’, many of which have limited hours or are closed certain days of the week. Nearby Washington state transitioned to allowing private liquor sales after voters passed an initiative in the 2011 election.  Advocates of the Oregon initiative are hoping that voters in their state will respond in a similar fashion. A previous attempt to get a similar initiative on the ballot, 2014’s “Oregon Liquor Control Modernization Act”, was withdrawn a month before the filing deadline for the November 2014 election. The supporters of the 2014 initiative did not state their reason for withdrawal, however, many speculate it was to amass a larger support structure for the 2015 election cycle. 2014’s November election already featured Ballot Measure 91 which successfully legalized the recreational use of cannabis in the state. As policy expert, Taylor Dawson, explains, “Many of the resources of the OLCC will now be redirected to regulating the sale of marijuana after the passage of Measure 91. I’m willing to speculate the sponsors of the Liquor Control Act decided to pull back and wait and see what happened with Measure 91.” Dawson feels that the ballot measure has more chance of success now that the proponents can also argue the OLCC will be spread thin trying to regulate both alcohol sales and the sale of marijuana. As he explains, “Thanks to the passage of Measure 91, this measure will likely see the existing state stores converted into marijuana stores that also may still sell liquor. The Act would also allow retailers like BevMo and Total Wine & More to expand into Oregon as they were able to do in Washington a few years prior. I’m just speculating, but I think the Governor is allegedly ready to endorse this change to bring in more out of state businesses into the state.” “Having the Governor on board will go a long way towards making this happen,” adds Dawson. “Also, I think a lot of Oregonians are just tired of being one of the last states in the union to have to jump through ridiculous hoops just to buy a bottle of the hard stuff.” While liberal Democrats and out of state businesses appear to be in support of the proposed measure, Oregon conservatives and religious leaders are expected to oppose the measure if it appears on the ballot. Also, as with previous measures, a coalition of bar owners is anticipated to come out against the change in liquor policy. A few vocal opponents are fearful that residents of Southern Washington will begin to caravan into Northern Oregon to avoid paying sales tax on liquor purchases. There is no existing evidence to show any significant sales tax evasion from Southern Washington residents and many experts do not see this as a significant concern.