JJ Abrams Planning Star Wars, Star Trek Crossover Film
Nerds around the globe have long debated whether Star Wars or Star Trek is the better science fiction franchise, but if famed Hollywood producer, director, and writer JJ Abrams has his way, there might someday be one film to settle that debate once and for all. According to inside sources within Abrams’ talent agency, the creator of the modern Star Trek films and upcoming Star Wars films is allegedly writing a new screenplay where the crew of the USS Enterprise might venture into a galaxy far, far away. Sources claim that Abrams, who is currently in production on Star Wars, Episode 7, “The Force Awakens,” has spent the past three weeks jotting down notes and drawing out stick figure storyboards for a film he’s tentatively titling “A New Frontier,” and has recently begun fleshing out the first few scenes of a screenplay. This film, which is little more than theoretical right now, would see the crew of the USS Enterprise crashing on Tatooine, the desert planet that both Anakin and Luke Skywalker had called their home. “The idea is that the enterprise crew are trying to outrun some trouble, and end up going through a wormhole. And that lands them in a different time and place… a long time ago, in a galaxy far, far away,” says a talent agency employee who claims he overheard Abrams in a meeting with his agent. “So you’d have the Star Trek characters meeting some of the Star Wars characters, and there’d be a whole adventure happening there, while the Enterprise crew tries to repair their ship and get home.” Another employee from the same agency corroborated the story. “He’s been really excited about this for a few days. He really wants to make this picture, where the Star Trek and Star Wars characters meet on Tatooine. Ari [Emanuel, Abrams’ Agent] has been putting in calls to execs at Disney and Paramount to see if they could get a meeting going.” While neither studio would confirm or deny the rumor, one Disney executive did hint that the company would be keen on the idea. “There’s no denying it really, crossover films are hot right now. The hype surrounding the upcoming Batman-versus-Superman movie is pretty intense, and of course `Avengers’ was a monster, and we’re working on the sequel to that. So I think something like this, with these two titans of science fiction crossing over, would be a huge hit with fans, not to mention a major cash cow.” But some fans aren’t going to be thrilled when they hear the concept. Paul Horner, 35, a comic book store owner in Tuscon, Arizona vowed on his podcast Tuesday morning that he will boycott all of Abrams’ projects until he publicly promises not to make the film. “Star Wars and Star Trek can’t be crossed over. They just can’t. It’s an abomination to even consider it. The only thing these two franchises have in common is that both occasionally take place in space. To even have this thought cross his mind should be enough to make JJ Abrams give up in the film industry entirely and go work a construction job someplace.” What do you think, readers? Should Abrams make a Star Wars/ Star Trek crossover film? Or does the very concept make you want to dress him up in a red shirt and throw him into a Sarlacc pit?