Macklemore Fans Confused By Fatherhood Announcement – Public Convinced Rapper Was Gay
Ben Haggerty, better known by his stage name, Macklemore, released a youtube video yesterday announcing his impending fatherhood to the masses. The video, which currently boasts over a million views, shocked many fans who were under the erroneous impression that the 31-year-old rapper is a homosexual. Though Macklemore has allegedly been engaged to longtime girlfriend, Tricia Davis, the public has remained in the dark regarding the rappers’ personal life, leading to the assumption that the lyricist is sexually attracted to members of his own sex. Adding fuel to the rampant speculation over his sexual orientation is the fact that Macklemore is constantly accompanied by his partner and producer, Ryan Lewis, whom most had assumed was his significant other, or “life partner”, if you will. His flamboyant hairstyle, meticulously over-groomed appearance, as well as songs which were rife with white guilt also seemed to allude to the fact that ol’ Mack is an accomplished power-bottom. Not so, apparently. Macklemore, who is a resident of Seattle, Washington, dashed the hopes of local gays after going public with the news that his wife-to-be did indeed have a miniature Maclemorian zygote marinating in her guts. I took a trip to a popular Seattle gay bar, the Man Hole, to gauge the homosexual community’s reaction to the Macklemore announcement. “Macklemore’s going to be a father? Never expected to hear that, unless it was followed by adoption with partner Ryan Lewis.” said Lance Tradger, host and DJ of a popular leather night which frequently plays Macklemore’s music to hordes of sweaty, gyrating men. “This has got to be some sort of hoax. Those lips weren’t made for kissing women.” “I don’t think the baby is his.” Shouts Jim T. over a blaring dance beat. “I know a gay man when I see one, and I assure you, that Macklemore is as gay as a baby unicorn dancing on a pixie dust rainbow. I’ve seen George Michael suck the custard out of an eclair at an ‘N Sync concert while staring Lance Bass lovingly in the eyes, and that has nothing on the level of gayness emitted from a single Macklemore performance.” Another fellow who refused to give his name said he hopes the baby is born black, adding, “I’m so sick of hearing him preach about white privilege. Just because a person is white doesn’t mean they were born with a silver spoon in their mouth like this closet case.” “Oh honey, if Macklemore is straight, then I’m the reincarnation of Mother Theresa”, proclaimed the flamboyantly dressed sister of perpetual indulgence, Sister Suxalotta Cox. “That queen needs to come to terms with his sexuality asap.” The more people we spoke with, the more we realized how deeply members of the LGBTQ community felt betrayed by Macklemore’s news. “I learned how to be gay from listening to Macklemore”, another club-goer told us, following with, “what business does he have writing songs about gay marriage when he’s nothing but a stinking breeder himself? I’m sick of straight people playing homosexual just to make a buck off of gays and lesbians. It’s despicable.”