Big Sean Alleges He Has Naya Rivera Sex Tape; Looks To Sell For $75M
Over the years, Kim Kardashian, Paris Hilton, Pamela Anderson, Tonya Harding, and many more bared all on camera, and had their sex tapes leaked or sold to the public. Now, hip-hop artist Sean Anderson, better known by his stage name Big Sean, is looking for buyers of an alleged sex tape he made with Naya Rivera while the couple were engaged.“This tape is a hot commodity, for sure. This isn’t just some has-beens or wannabes screwing on camera to get famous, this is two big names at the peak of their careers,” said Hollywood reporter Dennis Diamond. ”If it’s real, then everybody will want to get their hands on this tape. I mean, Naya Rivera isn’t exactly ugly or anything, if you know what I mean. If I had to guess whether or not a tape like this existed, though, I’d say no way in hell.” “Let me just say here that I’m already tired of hearing ‘Naya this’ and ‘Naya that.’ This isn’t the Naya Rivera hour, bitches. I am the star of this tape, not Naya. They don’t call me ‘Big Sean’ for nothing,” the rapper said. ”Yeah, sure Naya is pretty, but it’s me that’s packing a fire hose down there. Big Sean don’t lie. I’m holding out for big bucks with this one. I want $75 mil plus for this tape, which has it all, baby. It also finally answers the question of whether you can put 20 pounds of potatoes in a 10 pound sack. The answer is yes, with leverage and tons of lubricant. Someone better buy this tape, I gotsta get paid.” Karen Belton, River’s manager, said that aside from talking confusingly in both the first and third person, Big Sean is “completely full of shit.”“There is no sex tape, and if there is, Naya is definitely not in it. Further, if there was a sex tape, Naya definitely would not give her permission for its release, so there isn’t going to be any payday here. Big Sean can just sit home and play with his Little Sean until the cows come home, because no one is ever seeing any tape of Naya in the nude, or engaged in any sex acts.”Big Sean’s current girlfriend, Ariana Grande, had no comment on her man trying to make money off of sex with a former girlfriend. The couple, who have recently been subject to rumors that they were on the outs after Sean cheated, seemed cozy recently in pictures posted on their respective Instagram accounts.A spokesman for Vivid Video, a major distributor of celebrity sex tapes and adult films, laughed and then immediately hung up the phone when reached for comment on the asking price of the sex tape.