Obama Says American Capitalism To End When Hillary Elected
President Obama has had a few problems with hot mic moments over the course of his presidency. From joking that he hadn’t had a cigarette in six years because he was “scared” of his wife, to telling Russian President Dmitri Medvedeve that he would have “more flexibility” following his last election, the President has been caught making personally and politically embarrassing statements. But no previous private comment accidentally made public is as potentially incendiary as the one made last Wednesday at a Democratic Caucus midterm fundraiser. Following a speech given at a ten thousand dollar a plate dinner at the Capitol Hilton, Obama left the podium to privately converse with some of the Left’s biggest supporters and donors. Apparently the President did not realize that while the microphone feed to the room speakers had been cut, the microphone feed to local, student run university radio station WVAU had not been. Zach Ryan, a sophomore and communications major at American University, was covering the event for a class project detailing the role of the “Fifth Estate” in American politics. Little did Zach know that he wold stumble onto a political scoop that many establishment media journalists would die for. Recorded audio for the event in Ryan’s possession includes the following conversation between Obama and another unnamed man. Unnamed: Did she agree? Is she doing it?\nObama: I talked to her yesterday. She is definitely running.\nUnnamed: And when she wins?\nObama: It gets taken care of. It’s a broken system. There’s no room for straight capitalism in the modern world. It doesn’t work. We all know it.\nUnnamed: You’re sure?\nObama: She guaranteed me personally and I promised my support. All of our support.\nUnnamed: Good. I’ll talk to the others.\nObama: We’ll get it fixed. The Idiots (Republicans) are hanging themselves on the vine. We’re approaching a point of solid, sustainable supermajorities. It’s all over after that. Zach Ryan is currently in negotiations with several mainstream media outlets to sell the exclusive audio footage of the President’s stunning conversation. He has furnished the outlets with partial transcripts, including the dialogue above, and offered to sell the recordings for an unheard of fifty million dollars. “Anyone who wants this has got to pay”, Ryan told the National Report. “This could set me for life and I’m not letting it go cheap!” Mr. Ryan has offered any interested party the ability to listen to the recordings in person, but refuses to furnish any copies of the audio until he has been payed. Fox News is reported to have offered two million for the recordings, calling Ryan’s asking price impossibly ridiculous. The recordings have been compared with the leaked Romney video containing his now infamous 47 percent comment and could be potentially damaging not only to the President but also to presumed 2016 Democratic frontrunner Hillary Clinton.