Why Sarah Palin Can’t Shut Up About Barack Obama
Word wrangler Sarah Palin has referred to President Barack Obama as lackadaisical, accused him of ‘shucking and jiving,’ and in one interestingly-timed Facebook post last year on Martin Luther King Day, called on the President to stop “playing the race card.” What is it about President Obama that gets her goat, and why does that train keep moving down the track? Is it because Palin’s crowd-pleasing ‘community organizer’ slam fest during her first speech before a national audience went over so well? Maybe it was the reaction her ‘lipstick’ punch line received. Is she chasing some sort of high – going after the bigger and bigger laugh, exposing the nation to a never-ending open mic night? Or, is it something else in her past? “She wanted to play ‘Dorothy’ in The Wizard of Oz’, said Palin’s high school classmate and former friend Sue (Nelson) Trask. “I got the part and she didn’t. Our director told me ‘Sarah Louise can’t carry a note in a lunch bucket; you’ve got the part.’ She ended up playing ‘The Coroner’ and she wasn’t happy about it. She only had one line to say which is pretty funny, considering. She wouldn’t even look at me after that.” After all these years, could Sarah Louise be suffering from a “Dorothy Gale Complex?” She seems to be running away from the reality that the world around her has suddenly changed; trying to return to an America she desperately wishes she could take back, all while avoiding the wicked witch of reality. The things she says she holds near and dear seem to be threatened by the very existence of Barack Obama, so she clutches them tightly, clicks her heels, and speaks from within that grip of desperation. Whatever the reason, her fanaticism seems to be driven by more than just the timeworn party line of never giving the President credit for anything, under penalty of the GOP’s scorn, not to mention the threat of receiving the cold shoulder from the party’s wealthy donors, or FOX News. Simply put, Barack Hussein Obama is the best thing that ever happened to Sarah Louise Palin. The current President is a gold mine for Sarah’s bankbook, significantly bloated after she made the decision to quit the governorship of Alaska and directly offer her wares to her then growing base. The very mention of the President’s name from Palin guarantees face time, instant reactions from her Facebook friends, and an occasional speaking invitation from whichever conservative organization wishes to pay for her folksy brand of crowd-pleasing wisdom. She gives her audience what they need to hear, and the more outrageous the statement (or Facebook posting) the better. She’s like the gullible kid in the schoolyard who’ll take the dare – ‘You say it Sarah – you say it! We all voted and you won!’ Armed with encouragement, she trots forward with her latest Obama screed, while those standing behind her giggle, watch, and wait to see the outcome. So Sarah Louise gets to play ‘Dorothy Gale’ from Kansas after all – and Obama? Why, he’s Elvira Gulch, riding his socialist bicycle, coming to take her little dog away – and everything else, in toto. Yes, Sarah Louise – Toto, too.