Rand Paul Says Chris Christie’s Wife Is A ‘Fat Slut’, Has Cooties
Sen. Rand Paul dramatically escalated his feud with New Jersey Governor Chris Christie today by blasting his longtime wife in a highly personal attack. In an interview with a local Louisville television station, the Kentucky libertarian unloaded on Mary Pat Christie, a well-regarded former bond trader and charity organizer. The incident began this morning when WHAS anchor Bruce Nolan asked Paul why Christie refused to accept his offer to end their weeks-long argument over a pint of beer. "I think Chris Christie has just been in a bad mood lately," Paul replied, "and I don't blame him. If my wife were a fat slut, I'd be pretty irritable too. Everyone in Washington hears the stories. Bob Menendez has told me some wild ones. "Let's just say the only girl I know sluttier than Chris Christie's wife works a street corner outside a prison housing sex offenders. Not that there's anything wrong with that. I'm a libertarian and I believe in legalizing prostitution. But he must be going though some real hell at home right now. "But this isn't just about his personal life. It also affects his readiness to be commander-in-chief. How can Chris Christie be expected to face down terrorists when he can't even keep his own wife in line?" Paul and Christie have been engaged in a highly visible spat over the past few weeks, with each blasting the other's views on foreign policy, taxation, Obamacare and other issues in the national media. Many have noted the row represents a growing divide in the Republican Party, with Paul representing the insurgent libertarians and Christie the establishment conservatives. The argument has seen several low blows, including Christie invoking the families of Sept. 11 victims to blast Paul over his isolationist foreign policy stance. But in going after a political rival's spouse today Paul has set a new low, and Nolan felt compelled to challenge him over his unnecessary attack. "Why do you characterize Christie's wife in such highly provocative terms?" he demanded. "Everything I've heard about her has been glowingly positive. She seems like an devoted wife and mother. What proof do you have of these charges?' "Well, Bruce, I have it on good authority that Mary Pat Christie has tested positive for cooties," Paul responded, "and everyone knows you can only get cooties by kissing boys. I've also heard she smells yucky and has showed her underwear on the jungle gym, but those are unconfirmed reports at this stage." Paul has served as Kentucky's junior senator since 2011. He is the son of libertarian icon and former Texas congressman Ron Paul.