The Seven Deadly Sins of the Phish Phanatic
“These six doth the LORD hate: yea, seven an abomination unto him: A proud look, a lying tongue, and hands that shed innocent blood, An heart that deviseth wicked imaginations, feet that be swift in running to mischief, A false witness speaketh lies, and he that soweth discord among brethren.” – Proverbs 6:16-19 The words are clear and written in a contrite, understandable language. Sins of this distinction are an abomination to God and as the bible tells us, “ye shall be judged” and your eternal soul cast into the fiery furnace should your life complete without repentance. This, I say to the fanatic phans of the rock band, The Phish. The Phish is an electronic jazz flavored jamband with discernible funk overtones that creates a spectacular collage of confusing musical measures containing aimless notes at intense volumes. Concert goers at The Phish concerts lose the ability to control their urges when the manic music cascades and “peaks” their buzzes. It is well documented by myself and others the nature of these wayward transgressions against God’s clear-spoken laws governing the body and mind. When at The Phish Phestivals, every applicable commandment of the Lord is rebelled against. A recent study completed by the Wyoming Institute of Technology (link) concludes what I’ve known from many years of covering The Phish Tours: Sin is committed at as much as eight times that of a heavy metal concert, sixteen times that of a Steely Dan Concert, over a hundred times that of an Amy Grant Concert, and almost twice that of any juggalo event. From the phans that yank their penises in the light blue port-a-lets to the staggering number of instances involving drug abuse and sexual permissiveness, The Phish Concert lays claim to the number one spot in violating God’s Seven Simple Rules. Much more than having a taste for a grilled cheese in the after show shaked down area, a Phan will have no qualms about the over consumption of food and beverage, especially alcohol. Devious scammers line the route to the parking lot with coolers filled with a wide variety of refreshments and unhealthy food items. The air buzzes with the cries of salesmen as specially made sandwiches, pizza rolls, and pastry products are hawked at much the same manner as the temple money changers whom Jesus confronted. With what will be a similar result, these phans will have their tables kicked over as Jesus rousts them out of heaven. You’ll see and hear fistfights throughout the parking lot and inside a The Phish concert. It is inevitable that someone has a bag of dope or that one tape recording of the “hottest show” of the tour and won’t let it go for under 100 bucks. Tapers record The Phish and later sell massively produced records and compacted discs at later shows for top dollar amounts. A ticket to a show might cost a person $50, but the recording of the show is going to run the phan at least twice that amount. The drums on those unprofessionally recorded shows will sound like tin cans and the keyboards like kazoos when listening to the output of heavily distorted microphones hung haphazardly by lsd freaked tech wannabees. Whole guitar breaks will be lost during fumbled tape-flips and there’s always some screaming lunatic destroying the softer passages of the recording with insane howling or screaming, not that any phan actually listens that closely. Also, a phan will covet his ticket like a bum covets a jug of cheap wine. Do you think for one minute your automobile won’t be ransacked the moment you leave it alone in the parking lot at a The Phish show? Don’t leave anything of value in your car. Kiss that after show beer and cooler goodbye. While walking in to the festival grounds, do you not see the vagrant type trolls that meander along the path begging for a “miracle” or offering up sexual favors for a coveted concert ticket? Check the souvenir booth and you’ll find glazed eyed zealots coveting sold out tour posters and cheaply stitched t-shirts. You’ll experience the draw of envy at a The Phish concert because the groupthink is so overwhelming. Your awful lawn seats will cause great apprehension as you watch other phans file into the pavilion. The mosh pit at a The Phish concert is entered at the risk of personal injury or even death. Get too close to the stage or cross in front of one of the deranged druggies and you’ll be lucky to come away with only a black eye, bruises, and possibly a broken limb. Others aren’t so lucky. Phans at The Phish concerts brazenly leap and jiggle to the acid rock beats coming at them from the stage. Fists and elbows fly and legs kick out with no regard. On the average, a hundred kids are beaten to the point of hospitalization at the Phish shows because they ventured into the mosh pit and got caught up in the senseless violence. Dozens are trampled to death each tour. Police are ready with riot gear at The Phish shows to confront the violence clearly the result of carelessly ingested narcotics. Once spent from the various activities at a The Phish concert, the phan is useless to anyone else around. Drained from the constant twirling and mind violence, the phan is concerned only with selfish rest regardless of time or place. The nearest flop is undertaken with no regard for public ordinance or police presence. The various drugs that phans ingest throughout the day of a the Phish show wear off and cause great sloth and inactivity, much the same as a lion that has just stuffed itself with antelope meat. Consider a The Phish show almost the same, except replace the antelope meat with drugs. It is during this lazy time that even sex is forsaken to gain those needed slothy “Z’s.” You’ll probably find one of them resting his bones across your car in the parking lot after the show. The most bewildering deadly sin of the phanatic is that of pride. It is difficult for the casual outsider to comprehend exactly what a phan has to be proud of, but the presence of pride sin is bountiful at a the phish show. One scratches his head to take in all the sexual degradation, overwhelming drug consumption, and the stench of unwashed hippies, but for some reason, attendance at these decadent events is a badge of honor for these sinners. The most obvious of deadly sins at a the Phish concert is lust. Just as the carnal excesses of Sodom condemned the inhabitants to the fire rain of God’s revenge, the entire gathering of a the Phish show, having overwhelmingly succumbed to lust and free sex, will suffer the same flaming fate. I’ve documented the overt fornication and wanton promiscuity that occurs at the Phish concerts in my previous exposés. Every deviant form of lust manifests itself at a the Phish concert. Homosexuality, self rape, prostitution, slavery, cheap feels and oral sex for tickets or drugs is commonplace. Anyone attending a the Phish show can bet with better than even odds that his or her sex organs will be fondled, with or without consent. It is for these seven reasons that the Phish must be expunged from society. Parents that wish for a productive life for their offspring are already well aware that the Phish is not the road to heaven’s glory. I reach out to you parents on the fence. Please, under no circumstance, should you allow your child to attend a the Phish concert. My dear friends in Christ, it is only through your diligence, in addition to your tax-deductible gift ($20 suggested) to my ministry, that you can affect the disgraces that will befall your child should he or she fall under the lure of the Phish. And as for you degenerates that troll my ministry and poo poo my works, your time is near. Can you feel the warmth?