Gov. Rick Perry Suspends High School Football In Texas
Tom Cutinella of New York, Demario Harris of Alabama and Isaiah Langston of North Carolina all passed away in late September. Cutinella and Harris both died in the hospital as a result of injuries suffered in the contests they were participating in. Langston’s cause of death has not been confirmed. Langston collapsed prior to the start of Rolesville High School’s Sept. 26th game. “The Governor realizes that Texas takes football, especially at the high school level, very seriously. However, he is deeply concerned for the well-being of the young adults in the great state of Texas,” said Texas Governor’s Office Press Secretary Lucy Nashed in a prepared statement. “The Governor hopes that, as Americans, we can take a step back and think of the children. This office is working with lawmakers to put a halt to all Texas state high school football programs as soon as possible.” It is unclear if Perry’s plan is to just end the current football season early or if a longer suspension will be outlined in the legislation. Texas high school football has become a national institution in America after the success of the 2004 film and resulting television series “Friday Night Lights”. Texas lawmakers supporting Perry’s legislation have stated that they hope the state will bring the safety of high school football to the national spotlight. “It’s a bigger problem than most people realize. Unfortunately it has taken children dying for someone to stand up and do something about it. We really need to take a close look at whether a growing child should be subjected to the trauma the average player receives in a game of full contact football,” explains Texas Congressman Lloyd Doggett (35th District, Democrat). “I’m no supporter of the Governor on most issues, but this one is too important not to get behind.” Proposing a stoppage of high school football is a bold stance for Perry to take in the final days of his fourteen year run as the state’s Governor. Perry was indicted in August on two felony charges stemming from an alleged attempt to force Travis County District Attorney Rosemary Lehmber to resign.