Ryan Murphy on Being a Dad: I'm the Biggest Pushover
Producer Ryan Murphy (American Horror Story, Glee, American Crime Story) is known for creating some of the edgiest, sexiest, boundary-pushing television, but he also has a soft side. ET was at home with Ryan where his husband David Miller and their children Logan and Ford see the more sensitive side. NEWS: Watch the Cast of Glee Slay Their Final Live Performance!   "I thought I was going to be the biggest hardass ever, " Ryan told ET's Nischelle Turner.  "I am shocked to tell you that I am the opposite. I am the biggest pushover. I'm the biggest softie. " Helping Ryan and David get off to a good start with their kids is Hollywood's baby whisperer Luiza DeSouza. Her list of clients include Julie Chen and Leslie Moonves as well as Cindy Crawford and Rande Gerber.  "Celebrities, when I work with them, they don't look like celebrities, " Luiza told Nischelle.  "They look like any parent. "  "What Luiza did was she came into our life at the very get-go, " Ryan said.  "And she really helped organize our life and how we cared with our baby. She taught us everything -- how to bathe the baby, how to sleep train the baby, how to feed the baby. " NEWS: David Beckham's Parenting Called Out By Paparazzi  Luiza shares her wisdom in the book Eat, Pray, Sleep -- a subtle nod to the Julia Roberts film Eat, Pray, Love, which Ryan directed.  "Anybody who takes good care of a child is helping to mold the personality of a new human being, " Luiza said. Ryan agreed. NEWS: 7 Adorable Things Neil Patrick Harris Said About Parenting   "You get to see this life unfold and this baby who came out is now cracking jokes and saying funny things, " he said.  "It's a heartwarming human experience. It was the best thing I ever did in my life and I waited a really long time but I'm glad that I did. " Ryan also shared that he's appreciative to be raising children in Los Angeles.  "Our child is going to go to a school where there are people like him with same-sex parents and diversity and cultural diversity, " Ryan said.  "It has made me realize how much I admire parents. Let's say in the middle of the country -- like where I'm from in Indiana, or the south, Alabama -- gay parents who live there, how much more difficult it must be. And how many of them live in the shadows and are afraid to come out because of bullying and their children being perhaps even victimized. That's why I've gotten even more involved in charitable organizations like The Family Equality Council. " NEWS: Lady Gaga Coming to American Horror Story Watch the video for more.