Justin Bieber gets roasted, apologizes for behavior
Justin Bieber really wants you to like him again. After being the butt of the joke for hours during the taping of his Comedy Central roast, the 21-year-old singer gave a contrition speech."I turned a lot of people off over the past few years, but I know I can still turn out good music and turn everything all around," said Bieber, whose music has been overshadowed by his offstage antics, which include reckless driving, public urination and throwing eggs at a neighbor's home.24PhotosJustin BieberThe Canadian teen is the latest music sensation"I've lost some of my best qualities. For that, I am sorry," he said. "I'm looking forward to being someone who you guys can all look at and be proud of."It was a sweet ending to a night of sharp barbs aimed as much at Bieber as the rest of the roasters. Hosted by Kevin Hart, the "Comedy Central Roast of Justin Bieber," taped Saturday at Sony Studios, also features Snoop Dogg, Shaquille O'Neal, Martha Stewart and Ludacris. It's set to premiere March 30."This is like suicide. Why would you do it?" Hart asked the singer, whom he described as a "huge success that confuses everybody over 14.""The name Bieber has become so offensive, the Washington Redskins think you should change it," quipped comic Jeffrey Ross.The roasters - including a surprise appearance by Will Ferrell's character Ron Burgundy - jabbed at Bieber's bad behavior, his relationship with Selena Gomez, his music and his appearance.Perhaps the harshest remarks came from comedian Chris D'Elia."You have it all," he said, "except love, friends, good parents and a Grammy."Justin Bieber speaks at the Comedy Central Roast of Justin Bieber at Sony Pictures Studios on Saturday, March 14, 2015, in Culver City, California.Chris Pizzello/Invision/APStewart offered Bieber tips for his eventual trip to prison. Snoop Dogg appeared to smoke a joint onstage after telling the singer his next album should be called "Straight Outta Talent."Bieber, who was lowered from the ceiling to the stage wearing white angel wings, gently swiped back."What happens when you give a teenager $200 million?" he asked. "You get a bunch of has-beens calling you a lesbian for two hours."Bieber tweeted after the roast: Tonight was one of the best nights ever. Thank you to everyone involved. Thank you— Justin Bieber (@justinbieber) March 15, 2015