Amber Rose Opens up About Khloe Kardashian Feud: 'I Don't Hate Her'
Amber Rose has some surprising feelings about Khloe Kardashian.   "I don't hate Khloe. I don't hate her, " Rose told ET's Brooke Anderson. The 31-year-old model, best known for her revealing Instagram posts, sat down with ET, where she opened up about the well-publicized feud, and tried to explain her side of the story. NEWS: Khloe Kardashian Goes Off on Amber Rose in Twitter Rant  The drama began in February when Rose publicly criticized an alleged relationship between Khloe’s 17-year-old sister Kylie Jenner and 25-year-old rapper Tyga. During an interview with Power 105.1's The Breakfast Club on Feb. 13, Rose said,  "That's ridiculous. [Tyga] should be ashamed of himself. For sure. He has a beautiful woman and a baby and left that for a 16-year-old who just turned 17. " Khloe took umbrage with Rose's remarks and went on a twitter rant against the model, tweeting,  "'I was a stripper since I was 15 years old,' Amber Rose told Foxx. Please don't worry about my sister who has a career & her sh** together at ONLY 17, " Khloe, 30, wrote.  "People who live in glass houses shouldn't throw stones. " NEWS: Amber Rose Says How She Really Feels About Kim Kardashian   "I could have totally minded my own business when it came to her sister, " Rose explained.  "But, me being a dancer at such a young age, dealing with older men gave me the humility and knowledge to speak on such a subject. [But] I can understand why it came across the wrong way to her. I get it. But, that's a phone call she could have had with me. " Another development in the feud occurred when Rose's ex-boyfriend Kanye West, who is married to Kim Kardashian, joined in on the feud, telling Power 105.1,  "It's very hard for a woman to want to be with someone that's with Amber Rose… I had to take 30 showers before I got with Kim. " Rose addressed Kanye's comments, telling Brooke,  " We were happy when we were together! And now all of the sudden, I'm getting slut-shamed because we're not together anymore and it's not fair. " VIDEO: Kanye West Slams Ex Amber Rose: 'I Had to Take 30 Showers Before I Got with Kim'  Amber explained that it's for incidents like this that she began the Amber Rose Slut Walk hashtag.  "I deal with it every day. I deal with it via social media. People out on the street. They don't quite understand why I post what I post and how I speak on social media, " Rose said, explaining how slut shaming has hurt her and many other women.  "I'm sick of it and I'm here for my girls and we're gonna do the Amber Rose Slut Walk this summer and it's gonna be awesome. " Despite all the public drama, Rose said she would  "absolutely " love to work things out with Khloe. However, she didn't miss the opportunity to get one last jab saying,  "[Khloe] didn't have to tweet 11 times and try to humiliate me when, the only reason why these girls have careers is because their older sister had a little fun on tape. Let's be realistic. " NEWS: 4 NSFW Amber Rose Bikini Pics That May Break the Internet   "Which I never ever hated on, " Rose added.  "I'm all for a woman making something out of nothing. You know what I mean? If you can do something and bring your entire family on and make millions of dollars, that's dope to me. I love that. " Check out the video above for more from Rose about her #AmberRoseSlutWalk campaign, and on how she feels about Kim and Kanye's relationship.