Miley Cyrus' Bizarre NSFW Pic Fuels Patrick Schwarzenegger Cheating Rumors
Sometimes, you need a linguist to understand Miley being Miley! Following Patrick Schwarzenegger's vehement denial of rumors  that he cheated on girlfriend Miley Cyrus while on vacation in Cabo over the weekend, Miley Cyrus has been lighting up her Instagram today with several strange messages, including one you can seriously give yourself a headache trying to decipher.  In the caption to this pic, Miley writes,  "da most biewteous thang in da whole wide world iz friendship. yiew choose dem outta all da billion trillion and beyond dey are da onez dat days seem toooo short with.... Yiew wish dey could just go on foreva (that's why sometimes yiew skip da sleepin part). " For real, is that Miley or Chaucer? So far Miley appears to be making some sort of comment about friendship but the thing is she is not even done. In fact, she's about to get real existential.  "i am layin in da gra$$ lookin up at all da clouds and tryin to even get a lil solaaaa gaze action jusss bein still ... & bein thankful, " Miley continues.  "biewty is all around us and we izzzz so lucky to be on dis planet. (I mean seriously wtf are the chances we all meet da onez we love). " WATCH: Miley Cyrus Gets Candid --  "People Try To Make You Seem Out Of Control "  It could be vaguely addressing the rumors in some strange way, but there's still something going on here that we couldn't quite put our finger on. That is, until Miley finished the caption.  "Feeling supaaaa blisssssed, " Miley continued,  "or maybe I'm juzzzz stoned. " Yep. That sounds about right. Check out the Instagram below although WARNING: The crudely photoshopped image features NSFW elements depending on your definition of NSFW: Miley went on to post even more messages on Instagram, that thankfully don't require some sort of Rosetta Stone type device to translate. The first is just an image of the phrase,  "What are you thankful for today? " And another post simply says,  "Surround yourself with people that reflect who you want to be and how you want to feel, energies are contagious. " NEWS: Miley Cyrus Admits She Can't Spell Schwarzenegger  As for Miley's following update -- margs with mama! She doesn't seem to be worried about any cheating rumors there! Just last week, Miley went out to dinner with Patrick and his family! Check out their swanky date night below.