Madonna: Working out saved me from injuries after Brit Awards fall
Exercising regularly has been like a prayer answered for Madonna: The singer says thanks to staying active, she didn't suffer much after falling during her performance at the Brit Awards."If I wasn't in good shape -- tuck and roll," the singer, laughing, said during an interview with The Associated Press on Thursday night. "I attribute a lot of the fact that I came out all right because I'm in good shape."43PhotosMadonnaA look at the ever-changing but always controversial pop star over the yearsThe 56-year-old tumbled last week during a live performance after her dancers tugged at her flowing cape, dragging her down three steps. She got up after being yanked and continued her performance of "Living for Love.""My beautiful cape was tied too tight!" she explained of the mishap on Instagram. "But nothing can stop me and love really lifted me up! Thanks for your good wishes! I'm fine!" She later said she suffered whiplash after the fall."It was a horrible nightmare, because I like to be amazing," she admitted last week. "Seriously, I rehearse and I rehearse and I rehearse, so that when I do the show it's effortless and I create magic, and I did the opposite. I actually created a horror show for everyone."On Thursday, she said she was doing OK.Madonna said she's switched up her workout routines over the years to "keep things interesting, shock my body."24PhotosBrit Awards 2015Taylor Swift, Sam Smith and Jimmy Page gather for the annual U.K. music awards ceremony"I still do a lot of dance cardio. I started doing yoga again. I do interval training, metabolic interval training ... jumping ropes; something called body art," she said. "It has to change. You get bored doing the same thing over and over again."She said her workout playlist includes hip-hop, house and dance music."Anywhere from 120-128 beats per minute is a like good tempo for me," she said.Madonna added that her iPod currently is playing EDM producer Kidnap Kid and Diplo, who produced some of her new album "Rebel Heart," out next week. She's also been listening to electronic duo Disclosure and rapper Drake -- acts she may collaborate with in the future."I almost worked with Disclosure, but it didn't work out because they were on tour while I was making my record," she said. "I don't know, maybe I'll collaborate with Drake."