Romney's move makes life simpler for Hill Republicans
Capitol Hill Republicans breathed a sigh of relief Friday upon learning that Mitt Romney had chosen to bow out of the 2016 presidential race. The congressional GOP almost uniformly says that Romney would be a great president now had he won in 2012, due to his managerial acumen and the fact that he isn’t President Barack Obama. And no one was dancing on his political grave: Even Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.), who said earlier this month that Romney had “had his shot”, had only nice things to say Friday about the former Massachusetts governor. Story Continued Below But Romney’s decision spares Republicans from an awkward choice among a failed 2012 nominee that they all supported, several up-and-coming governors and several of their congressional colleagues who are considering a run for president. And it marked the first major candidate making things a little simpler for Republicans as they begin seriously weighing where to place their political bets in 2016. “It’s very helpful that he made the decision early and he informed everybody that’s what he’s going to do,” said Sen. Shelley Moore Capito of West Virginia. “I wasn’t that surprised.” Added Sen. Jeff Sessions of Alabama: “He probably made a good decision.” Privately, several aides went further than lawmakers themselves, cheering their party’s prospects with Romney out of the field and the possibility that the GOP’s nominee could be someone to turn the page. “Thank God,” said one staffer when informed of the Romney news. Most members of Congress weren’t even taking Romney’s flirtations with a third run that seriously. Several senators had no idea that he’d bowed out of 2016 until asked about his decision on Friday, and even Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), one of Romney’s biggest boosters on the Hill, hadn’t spoken with Romney recently. Given the bunker mentality that now defines most Republicans’ relationship with Obama, there is certainly pining on Capitol Hill for a President Romney. But they don’t have that same enthusiasm for a candidate Romney, save for maybe in Utah. “Bummer. Mitt would have been one of the best Presidents ever,” Rep. Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah) tweeted on Friday after carrying Romney’s torch for weeks on the Hill. And Hatch would have been right there with Chaffetz if Romney went the other way on Friday. “I don’t think he’d lose this time,” Hatch said. “If he ran I’d endorse him because I think he’s as fine a man as I’ve ever met.” But on Friday, in a mostly empty Capitol, the main feeling was relief: Finally a moment of clarity in the chaotic brawl for the GOP nomination. “I respect his opinion and there’ll be somebody that steps up and does a good job,” said Sen. John Boozman of Arkansas, who paused to add: “I don’t know who that person is right now.”