Kate, Duchess of Cambridge, visits "Downton Abbey" set
"Downton Abbey" got a visit from real-life royalty on Thursday, when the Duchess of Cambridge visited the set of the popular series. Kate, 33, who is due to give birth to her and Prince William's second child next month, was given a tour at London's Ealing Studios, where she met with "Downton" cast and crew members and got to watch a scene being filmed for the show's sixth season.21PhotosDuchess Kate visits "Downton Abbey"Kate, Duchess of Cambridge, meets cast and crew during a tour of the hit series' set at London's Ealing StudiosThe duchess, wearing a cream coat by the maternity brand Jojo Maman Bebe, was shown the wardrobe and hair and makeup departments before heading to the servants' hall and kitchens, where she met some of the show's stars including Hugh Bonneville, Michelle Dockery and Elizabeth McGovern (unfortunately, Maggie Smith -- who plays the Dowager Countess -- missed the visit because she was ill). "We are so honored to have had Her Royal Highness The Duchess of Cambridge join us on the set of 'Downton Abbey,'" said Gareth Neame, executive producer, and managing director of Carnival Films, which produces the series. "The duchess is a great fan of the show so it was interesting to see her step into the world-renowned sets and see the characters come to life. She was so incredibly gracious to spend time with our actors and those behind the camera who bring the saga of the Crawley family to life." "I think the duchess really enjoyed herself. We knew before she came that she was a fan of the show and she clearly knew a lot about what we did," Lesley Nicol, who plays the cook Mrs. Patmore, told the Daily Mail after the visit, adding, "I really hope she has just gone home for a cup of tea and put her feet up. It was a long time for her to be walking around on the set with that bump." Laura Carmichael, who plays Lady Edith Crawley, added, "It was very exciting for everyone, the cast and the crew. It was a very special day for Downton. It was a very surreal and exciting experience to be at work and be visited by a member of the royal family." Kate's "Downton" visit comes two days after she stepped out at an art gallery in Margate, England, and as she's got less than six weeks to go before Prince George's younger brother or sister arrives.