"Greatest Show on Earth" to phase out audience favorites
The Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus said today it is doing away with elephant acts. The circus, which calls itself "The Greatest Show on Earth" has been accused of abusing the magnificent beasts in the name of entertainment.For more than 140 years, few animals have dazzled crowds more than elephants at the circus. But the 12 remaining pachyderms, icons of the Ringling Bros. brand, will be phased out of performances over the next three years.Circus owners say they're responding to customers and the growing cost of fighting "anti-circus" and "anti-elephant" laws across the country.It's a bittersweet decision, there's no question about that," said Kenneth Feld, the chairman of the circus' parent company, Feld Entertainment. "But it is the best thing, and we felt this was the right time to do it."Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus says it is phasing out its elephant performances.CBS NewsAllegations of elephant abuse have plagued the circus for years. A 2009 video taken by People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals or PETA, allegedly shows elephants being beaten and prodded backstage prior to a Ringling Brothers performance. Animal rights groups are taking credit for today's announcement. "It has been a lonely and miserable time for them in captivity," said Ingrid Newkirk, president of PETA. "Never should have happened. It should stop now, not three years from now. It should stop now."In 2011 Feld Entertainment paid a $270,000 fine for alleged violations of the Animal Welfare Act. But lawsuits brought by other animal rights groups alleging elephant abuse never succeeded. In fact, after a 14-year battle, those groups were forced to pay the circus $25 million for legal fees.These animal rights organizations will say whatever they want," Feld explained. "They have their own agenda. All I know is every time they've taken us to court, we have prevailed."Ringling Bros. says its other exotic animal shows will continue. But those elephants are going to be taken to the conservation center near Orlando that's where they will participate in a breeding program designed to protect the endangered species.