Eva Mendes Shows Off Post-Baby Bod, Talks Working Out: 'I Don't Love It'
Eva Mendes looks better than ever since giving birth to baby Esmeralda in September. The gorgeous 41-year-old actress covers Women's Health's April issue sporting a white tank-top and pants while looking fit and happy, but she's also not afraid to admit that it takes work to maintain her slim physique. The Hitch actress dishes that she runs and does interval sprints, we well as lifts a little bit of weight but  "nothing too heavy, because [her] muscle bulks up pretty easily. "  "I realized a long time ago that I needed to have some kind of routine, " she says about of her workout regime, which also includes yoga and hikes with her trainer.  "I don't love it, but I've made peace with that. " PHOTOS: Stars Who've Shed the Baby Weight   She's also been a vegetarian for six years because of her personal beliefs, but shares that there's been other benefits from her diet as well.  "I haven't eaten meat in about six years, because I don't agree with factory farming here, " she shares.  "This is just what worked for me, it's important to say, but when I cut that out I immediately felt better. And also, after a year of eliminating it, my skin looked brighter and healthier overall. " As for how her life has changed since welcoming her daughter with boyfriend Ryan Gosling, Eva says she actually enjoys all the sleepless nights.  "It's bonding with my little girl, " she says. Though don't expect her to dish out any mothering advice any time soon.  "I want to respect all the moms out there, " she explains.  "They're going to be like, 'You know what? You're a few months in. Just shut up.' " In the candid new interview, Eva is also open about seeing a therapist regularly and being pro-active about her mental health.  "Having [a therapist] who's totally objective and who points out my patterns -- I find that really helpful, " she says.  "And I'm lucky to work with someone who doesn't just sit there and nod her head, you know? I need to hear what you think! Tell me what's wrong with me so I can fix it! " PHOTO: Did Ryan Gosling Get His Daughter's Name Tattooed on His Knuckles?   In January, Eva presented at the Hollywood Stands Up To Cancer event, where she had a bit of trouble reading the teleprompter on-stage. Luckily, she had a very good excuse -- her lack of sleep thanks to being a new mom! Watch the adorable moment below: