Pacific Northwest : colder and wetter than average . La Nina often results in below average temperatures and increased mountain snow in the Pacific Northwest and western Montana during the winter months . This may set the stage for spring flooding in the Missouri River Basin . California : colder than average with odds favoring wetter than average conditions in northern California and drier than average conditions in southern California . All of the southern part of the nation is at risk of having above normal wildfire conditions starting this winter and lasting into the spring . Northern Plains : colder and wetter than average . Spring flooding could be a concern in parts of this region . Southern Plains and Gulf Coast states : warmer and drier than average . This will likely exacerbate drought conditions in these regions . Florida and south Atlantic Coast : drier than average , with an equal chance for above , near , or below normal temperatures . Above normal wildfire conditions . Ohio and Tennessee valleys : wetter than average with equal chances for above , near , or below average temperatures . Potential for increased storminess and flooding . Northeast and Mid Atlantic : equal chances for above , near , or below normal temperatures and precipitation . Winter weather for these regions is often driven not by La Nina but by the Arctic oscillation . If enough cold air and moisture are in place , areas north of the Ohio Valley and into the Northeast could see above average snow . Great Lakes : tilt toward colder and wetter than average . Hawaii : Above average temperatures are favored in the western islands with equal chances of above , near , or below average precipitation . Statewide , the current drought is expected to continue through the winter . Drought recovery is more likely over the windward slopes of the Big Island and Maui . Alaska : colder than average over the southern half of the state and the panhandle with below average precipitation in the interior eastern part of the state .
