Rob has your forecast coming up . We do start with the attack on the planned parenthood clinic in Colorado Springs . We ' re learning so much more about the suspect , his past , his political views and his potential motive for killing three and injuring nine others . This as the idyllic city of Colorado Springs looks to are recover from its second active shooter in a month . Clay ten Sandell is there . Reporter : The planned parenthood building behind is still a crime scene . Overnight , we ' re learning that the alleged gunman to authorities and that ' s bringing his motive into clear focus . After that shootout between police and alleged gunman Robert dear . Police and federal agents , guns drawn , search his home north of Colorado Springs . Where neighbors and desaid dear and a woman kept to himself . We got some antiobama pamphlets within three minutes of meeting someone . Reporter : The home similar to this cabin , where dear once lived without running water or electricity . We just took fire through the window . And then I heard a loud pop and a few people began to duck and run . Reporter : After the firefight and standoff , law enforcement said that dear allegedly made hostile comments about planned parenthood . It happened a planned parenthood setting . Reporter : What does tell you ? That has a lot to do with the motive . Reporter : Lorette Ya lynch called it a crime against women receiving care at the planned parenthood . Overnight one of dear ' s alleged victims Garrett Swasey , a university of Colorado police officer was honored . Garrett would tell you tonight that forgiveness needs to be Ek tended to him . Two more people killed haven ' t been identified . Nine others were wounded . But expected to recover . We ' re going to support the victims and their families . Reporter : Now , law enforcement sources say the department of justice considers this case a case of domc trichlt but dear will likely face state charges first , which will include three charges of murder . Dan ? All right , Clayton , thank you . Our thoughts go out to those
