Supreme Court Rules Gays Have Equal Right to Carry Guns Into Schools
The U.S. Supreme Court made a landmark decision on gay rights today by finally allowing gays to carry loaded guns into elementary schools. In a 7-2 decision the court struck down an Alabama law that limited firearms in primary schools to "law-abiding heterosexuals." Writing for the majority, Justice Anthony Kennedy said that Second Amendment rights were an inviolable part of the Constitution and outweighed Alabama's concerns over exposing children to the homosexual lifestyle. "There is no more important civil right in America than being able to carry a concealed weapon into any building you want," the decision reads, "It is unconscionable that states feel they can infringe upon this sacred right on the basis of sexual orientation. "It is unclear if children are harmed by the presence of homosexuals in their lives. But one thing is certain: nothing is more beneficial to children than close proximity to firearms." The latest Supreme Court ruling comes as the nation awaits its verdicts in two bigger gay rights cases. It is expected to rule any day on the constitutionality of the Defense of Marriage Act and on California's Proposition 8, which could have far bigger implications for gay couples. In today's decision, however, the justices made clear that as far as the court is concerned, gun rights are a higher priority than marriage equality. "Some argue that the Constitution also guarantees the right for gays to marry under the equal protection cause of the 14th amendment," it continues, "but as we all know, some amendments are more important than others." Reaction to the ruling has been mixed in the gay community, with many people disappointed at the narrow scope of the case. "I suppose all things considered, it's a good thing that gay gun owners have the same rights as others," explains Brad Johnson of the Human Rights Campaign, "but I really would have preferred the legalization of gay marriage." The two dissenting justices, Antonin Scalia and Clarence Thomas, argued in a blistering dissent that allowing armed gays into schools could lead to a complete social breakdown. "What if they try to recruit children into gayness at gunpoint?" Scalia wrote. "Permitting weaponized homosexuals in our educational establishments opens up a Pandora's box."