Report: Peter Jackson To Produce J.R.R. Tolkien’s “The Silmarillion”
Fresh off the release of the final film in his “The Hobbit” trilogy, sources in Hollywood are reportedly saying that Peter Jackson plans to tackle J.R.R. Tolkien’s “The Silmarillion” for his next project. It is unknown if Jackson will direct the “Silmarillion” trilogy or will only act in a producer capacity. “The Hobbit” trilogy was originally slated to be directed by Guillermo del Toro, who had to leave the project in 2010 due to constant production delays. With del Toro’s departure, Jackson ended up directing “The Hobbit” films, which led to it expanding into a trilogy instead of the planned two films. Film critic, Gary Caldwell of the North Bend Press claims that, “I’ve heard rumblings that prior to the post-production for ‘The Desolation of Smaug’, Jackson was in negotiations with New Line and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer to secure the rights to produce a series of films ‘based on The Silmarillion and other Tolkien tales’. Several people have told me that Jackson being forced back into the director’s chair for ‘The Hobbit’ rekindled his interest in adapting even more of Tolkien’s writings into screenplays.” Tolkien expert, Francis Villalba of Grinnell, Iowa explains that, “‘The Silmarillion will be a tricky book to convert to films, but I think Peter Jackson could do it some justice. I’m assuming they will adapt ‘Quenta Silmarillion’ for the most part and the benefit of that is that none of the previous characters from ‘The Lord of the Rings’ or ‘The Hobbit’ are really featured. This would free up the casting a bit and not make them have to rely on signing high-profile actors like Ian McKellen, Elijah Wood or Orlando Bloom to make the films happen.” Villalba also suspects that Jackson will also include the sections ‘Akallabêth’, ‘Ainulindalë’ and ‘Valaquenta’ in some capacity. “I think the biggest concern is that he (Jackson) starts to pull from too many other sources, like he did with ‘The Hobbit’, and we wind up with either five films or a trilogy of five to six-hour films,” adds Villalba. Caldwell is surprised that New Line is reported to be interested in any more Tolkien films. “They made a killing off of the ‘Lord of the Rings’ films,” says Caldwell. “But, they made roughly the same on ‘The Hobbit’ with a significantly higher budget and less overall profit. I’ll be really surprised if this project does happen. I’m sure many MGM and New Line executives may feel Jackson is going to the well one too many times.” Jackson’s proposed film version of “The Silmarillion” is ground-breaking as it was previously viewed as impossible due to the rights holder, J.R.R. Tolkien’s son, Christopher Tolkien, being unwilling to sell the film rights. Christopher Tolkien is essentially the co-editor of “The Silmarillion” as the book is comprised of archive material and previously unpublished works by the elder Tolkien. Christopher Tolkien has not spoken publicly on this apparent change of heart as it was previously thought he was unhappy with the “Lord of the Rings” films and has not stated a public opinion on the recent “The Hobbit” films. “I’m amazed New Line and MGM were able to get the rights,” adds Villalba. “It’s well-known in the Tolkien fan community that Christopher Tolkien has no interest in selling any more of the rights to any of the published works. If these films happen it will truly be a miracle.”