Scientologists Applaud Oscar Snubs for ‘The Master’
As viewers of the 85th Academy Awards on Sunday night are no doubt arguing and concurring over the winners and losers of the night, at least one worldwide organization is basking in the Oscar snubs of one movie. The Church of Scientology, which counts many Hollywood celebrities in its membership, praised the Academy Awards for not awarding top acting awards to “The Master,” which was nominated in three categories. “The Master,” which is about a religious movement led by a charismatic cult leader, was reportedly inspired by the founding of the Church of Scientology. The film has received critical acclaim, but Church leaders have repeatedly criticized it since its release last year. “We are happy that the Academy did the right thing and recognized ‘The Master’ as the overrated, blasphemous fraud that it really is,” the Church said in a press release. “The studio should be ashamed of itself for releasing it and should offer refunds to anyone who saw it.” “The Master” received Oscar nominations for Best Actor, Best Supporting Actor and Best Supporting Actress for Joaquin Phoenix, Philip Seymour Hoffman and Amy Adams, respectively, but did not win any of them. “It’s disappointing that the Academy nominated Joaquin Phoenix, Philip Seymour Hoffman and Amy Adams for acting awards, considering that their so-called performances were mediocre at best,” the Church said. “Philip Seymour Hoffman chewed the scenery like it was toffee, and somebody forgot to tell Joaquin Phoenix that he wasn’t playing Johnny Cash. “And sorry, but Amy Adams should stick to Disney films about princesses.” The Church did not spare Anderson from its criticism, noting it’s happy that he did not get nominated for Best Director or Best Screenplay. “Paul Thomas Anderson has a history of making bloated, unwatchable movies – aside from ‘Magnolia,’ which at least had the star power of Tom Cruise to redeem it a bit,” the Church said. Members in high places The Church of Scientology reportedly has millions of members worldwide. Prominent Scientologists in the entertainment industry include Tom Cruise, John Travolta, Giovanni Ribisi, Beck, Juliette Lewis, Kirstie Alley and Jason Lee. The release of "The Master" has been controversial in Hollywood since its release. Studio head Harvey Weinstein said Scientologists had attempted to block the movie from distribution, which the Church denies. “We had absolutely no role in trying to block this piece of junk movie from seeing the light of day,” Church spokesman Lancaster Dodd said. “In retrospect, we probably should have, but we did not.” Flunking the Academyn The Church of Scientology was not entirely pleased with the other Oscar nominations and winners, however. “The Church was quite disappointed that the Academy completely overlooked the movie ‘Jack Reacher’ and its star, Tom Cruise, for Best Picture and Best Actor,” a Church spokesperson said. “The film is destined to be a classic, and the Academy blew it.” “We’re also unhappy that John Travolta did not get a nomination for 'Savages,' which was brilliant. Or what about Giovanni Ribisi’s amazing performance in 'Contraband'? Or Juliette Lewis’s incredible, star-making turn in 'Hick.' " However, the Church did rip into another movie not based on Scientology. “We are pleased that the Academy ignored (director) Tom Hooper for ‘Les Miserables,’ ” the Church said in its press release. “Mind you, we’re not aware of Mr. Hooper holding anti-Scientology beliefs; we just think that ‘Les Miserables’ was a loud, bloated turd. "And all (Best Supporting Actress winner) Anne Hathaway did was play a prostitute who cuts her hair, mopes, looks dirty and dies. Helen Hunt was robbed.”