Depressed Dog Named “Duke” Considering Non-Invasive Botox Treatments
Lafayette, LA – Poor old Duke just lays around in bed these days.  He’ll get up and gnaw on a bone once and awhile, but Duke is depressed.  He’s been depressed for several years now.  He caught a glimpse of himself in the reflection of the car door window one day before his owners rolled it down for him.  He never knew, prior to then, why other dogs would not sniff his ass as much as others seemed to get their asses smelled.  It was on that day Duke realized that his wrinkled up face made him look like a pathetic mess. Through the dog psychologist Duke has been seeing, who also happens to be a dog language interpreter, we were able to get Duke’s immediate thoughts on how he’s feeling. “I used to lick my own ass since no one else would but I don’t even do that anymore,” whimpered a downtrodden Duke. “I just sit around the house and sleep a lot.  I dream about it sometimes.  My shrink and I have been talking and he’s almost got me convinced to try Botox treatments.  I know I could die from Botulism but I’m half dead as it is already.  I’m not ready for any incisions or anything like a face lift just yet.  That freaks me out.  But a few needles?  Hell, I get poked by tons of needles when I go to the doctor already.  A few more to improve the quality of my life is really a no brainer.” We can tell you that Duke has started his Botox treatments.  He’s experienced a few side effects that doctors explain as “normal” until they are able to treat more dogs.  Duke has experienced temporary paralysis of his anus resulting in unplanned soiling of his owner’s carpets.  Injections around Duke’s jaw have severely hampered his ability to chew solid foods.  Duke is slurping a lot of Jello and frozen yogurt.  This has not helped his pooping problem. “All in all, I’m glad I took the step to improve my looks and my life,” says Duke.  “I’m not gonna lie, it’s been tough so far.  I get left outside a lot more now because no one knows, including me, when some form of waste will come leaking out of my ass.  But that will stop eventually.  I’m sure of it.  The doctors have shown me some potential before and after pictures and that keeps my spirits up.  They think that I may even come out looking like a basset hound without those dumb ass floppy ears.  That would be fantastic.” Duke splashed out a vile stream of some sort of liquid from his ass with large pieces of Jello landing softly on his backyard lawn.  Through Duke’s psychologist, we thanked him for his time and quickly exited the premises.  Duke saw us out with a look of hopeful shame on his face.  We wish you well, boy.