McCain Claims Susan Rice Was Behind 9/11
U.S. Senator John McCain said today that it is 'highly possible' UN Ambassador Susan Rice was involved in planning the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. The once-respected former Republican presidential nominee made the explosive allegation during a capitol hill press conference at which several GOP senators reiterated their opposition to Rice's appointment to the Secretary of State position left vacant by a departing Hillary Clinton. After short statements by Kelly Ayotte and Lindsay Graham, McCain took the microphone and unleashed a series of allegations: "My friends I am as shocked by this information as you are. But in the past hour my dear colleague Congressman Louie Gohmert has shared with me some of his personal concerns regarding Ms. Rice. And I have to say that after picking his brain, I am now very concerned she may have been involved in the 9/11 attacks in some way." A Real Maverick McCain explained that although he has no proof of Rice's involvement in Islamic terrorism, in his mind a number of questions need to be answered: "Ms. Rice worked on the Africa desk at the State Department while Osama Bin Laden lived in Africa. I have one question for Ambassador Rice: how did Bin Laden get from Sudan to Afghanistan undetected? Was he magically teleported there? Or did someone in our government cover his tracks?" "And who let the 17 hijackers into the country? Were they really here on expired student visas? Or maybe someone at the State department gave them diplomatic passports. Makes more sense that way. Can do more with a diplomatic passport." "And where was Ms. Rice on the day of September 11th, 2001? I'm told that she was supposed to have a meeting at the Pentagon, but abruptly cancelled after receiving a text message from an anonymous number." "Who was Ambassador Rice texting on the morning of 9/11 and why did she cancel her afternoon meeting at the Pentagon?" McCain then said he wasn't totally opposed to Rice as the nominee, but insisted that she must have answers to these questions before she gets his vote: 'The American people need to know the truth, Ms. Rice. What else are you hiding?"  