GOP Considering Name Change Before 2016 Elections; “Reagan Party” A Top Choice
Last week, the Republican Party won big in the midterm elections, seizing control of the Senate while retaining control over the House, while also picking up governor mansions all across the nation. But for many Republican campaign strategists, the party has a lot of work to do if it hopes to repeat the magic in 2016… and that work might include renaming the party completely. According to GOP Chairman Reince Priebus, he and his party’s leadership got together back in July of this year to begin discussing plans for the 2016 presidential election, with the goal of figuring out how to take back the White House. Since then, Republicans have come up with a number of ideas regarding how they might reach their ultimate political goal, but many of the ideas their strategists came up with weren’t favorable to the party leadership. “They want us to shift our party’s political ideology more toward the center. More toward the polls,” says Priebus. “Most Americans actually disagree with GOP policies. Poll after poll shows they’re falling in love with Obamacare. They want green energy and a safer environment, and background checks and stricter laws for gun ownership, and evolution taught in schools. It isn’t enough for us to just yell `lower taxes’ and expect mainstream Americans to vote for us. The people are too smart for that now.” Priebus says the GOP will be doing some of that, admitting informally that the GOP will begin moving toward embracing climate change science, gay marriage, and green energy, pitched to Republicans as an intelligent business incentive. And all of those major ideological shifts are meant to attract younger voters to their party. “This won’t be the `Grand Ole’ Party’ anymore,” says Priebus. “We might actually change that. We’ve been considering a total rebranding, to coincide with our upcoming policy shifts. We’ve got a list of possible new names for our party. My personal favorite is `the Reagan Party.’ It’s perfect, I think. We aren’t calling ourselves `old’ anymore, and we really try to be `the party of Reagan.’ It makes sense.” Priebus says that name specifically — The Reagan Party — is the most popular on their short list. “We’ve been looking at other names, but that’s the one everyone seems to like the most. Some of our other ideas are pretty good though, too. The Freedom Party, the Independence Party, those are some crowd-pleasers. But the Reagan Party really embraces who we are and who we want to be going forward. And I really think those demographics we do poorly with, like young voters, women, and minorities, can really get behind the name, too. The democrats would look like iconoclasts if they tried campaigning against us, because Reagan wasn’t only a great man, he was an institution.”