Texas to Pass “Name Your Fetus” Bill
State legislators in Texas will vote on an anti-abortion bill that some opponents are saying is “the most draconian law” in Texas’ history, as it makes abortions significantly more challenging for women to obtain.  But despite their protests, analysts are now saying the bill will likely overwhelmingly pass when it’s up for vote on June 16th. The “Right to Life Act of 2014,” which has taken on the nickname of “the name your fetus bill,” was proposed last year by Texas State Senator and local Tea Party favorite Dennis Kilmeade (R).  If passed, it would mandate that women seeking an abortion must not only hear their fetus’ heartbeat, but must also come up with male and female baby names, speak with at least one faculty member from the local school district, and examine no fewer than 30 baby photos. But what’s arguably the most heatedly-debated rule?  The woman would also be required to write her excuse for getting the abortion, and submit it to a judge.  While the judge cannot decide the woman’s fate, he or she can, at their sole discretion, pass the letter on to the county clerk, with orders to publish the woman’s name, photo, and the name of her fetus on a website. The bill has been quietly debated in closed sessions in Texas’ capital building for months.  Democrats fervently opposed it, and hold barely enough seats to filibuster the vote.  But reports indicate the Democratic Party leadership caved in April after Republicans made a number of concessions in the bill, stripping away a mandatory night in jail, a ban on welfare benefits, and mandated attendance at church services. Local Democrats are not pleased.  “This is one of the most ridiculous laws I’ve ever heard of.  How the Democrats could cave like this is beyond anyone,” said abortion doctor Alison Ames of Galveston, Texas.  “Come on… mandatory jail time?  Forced church attendance?  Have these people read the Constitution?  This is absurd.” But Republicans are adamant their law is a game changer.  “This could spread nationally, once people see the success we’ll have with the law,” Kilmeade claimed during a recent interview with Fox News.  “At the end of the day, this is an honest Christian nation with good Christian morals and values.  It’s not our fault if some people fail to see that and let the devil between their legs.  We can’t ban abortion, but this is the next best thing.  And these women will all be happier for it, they’ll see that in the end.”