Garbage Beckons Our Youth
Moral Evaluation Specialist and Rock Critic “Come down to my house–stick a stone in your mouth\n You can always pull out–if you like it too much\n Make a whole new religion\n A falling star that you cannot live without\n And I’ll feed your obsession\n There’ll be nothing but this thing that you’ll never doubt” These are the first words that our precious youth will hear when they play the eponymous compact music disc from rock band very appropriately named “Garbage.” The song’s lyrical content paints an eerie picture of deviant sex by rejecting the religious upbringing that their parents have worked so hard to instill in them. This band and its popularity is a testament to the depths at which the world has fallen as it succumbs time and time again to the will of Satan. The track is called “Supervixen.” It is sung by a visibly striking glamor whorelot named Shirley Manson. While rejecting religious upbringing during her formative years in Edinburgh, Scotland, Ms. Manson took to the lure of satanic music in the form of bands like the Pretenders and Patty Smithe. She befriended musicians by offering her body up to local garage bands…a supervixen in the making to be sure. Her drug use became a defining aspect of her future endeavors. “Fix me now I wish you would–Bring me back to life” — Garbage, Fix Me Now. “Fixing” is a slang term for the process of needle drug users injecting themselves with lsd-laced hash oils, or “fixing” themselves. It is important that parents familiarize themselves with these slangs. The National Report fellowship offers many articles for reference in this area because you and your offspring’s souls are of the utmost concern during these dark times where the devil’s influence is leading society toward ruin. Manson’s early slippage down the popularity ladder was caused by Christian rejection of her acceptance of Satanism and led to her becoming a social outcast that cut and bodily harmed her person. Does that sound at all familiar with the horrors of emo-sexuality that our beloved Sister Susan B. Xenu has consistently warned us about? Indeed, it surely does (no pun intended). Ms. Manson is so starved for acceptance among her male peers that she uses gratuitous sexual advances and horrifying disfigurement of her person, a sin against God.   It was during this time that Manson became a satanic song writer and front local rock bands whenever she was off her knees. Soon she became the lead singer of Angelfish, a talentless but popular dark emo band. They released a compacted music disc that led to her discovery by a greedy gang of equally talentless musicians and satanic record producers in the leftist town of Madison, WisconSIN. Bill O’Reilly of Fox News warned us about Madison, “where you expect those people to be communing with Satan up there in Madison.” Link Producer/musician Stever Marker, along with Dirk Erickson and Bitch Vig, the latter having produced such alt bands as Nerd-vana and the Smashed Pumpkins, were at the same time looking for a female lead singer to accompany the musical droll that they wished to record. After catching a show from the before mentioned Angelfish band, the three invited Manson to Madison to form an unholy band/pact in 1995 named, appropriately enough, Garbage. They used the powerful presence of Satan in Madison, WI to conjure up a very frightening musical style of industrial alternative gumball rock that is highly over-produced and very enticing to those most vulnerable in society, our wayward and receptive youth. Garbage very quickly landed a recording deal due to Satan’s influence in the recording business. As mentioned above, Garbage’s music and lyrical content is highly sexual in nature. The song “Cherry Lips” became an industrial/alt/gum classic with a call to young women to promiscuate their bodies on display to impressionable boys and use oral sex mouth skills to get their attention and succubus their baby making fluids from their testicular loins…hence the song’s title. “With your cherry lips and golden curls–you could make grown men gasp\n When you’d go walking past them–In your hot pants and high heels” Sick. You may remember that oral craze that infiltrated American schools during this time led by nymphomaniac white house intern Monica Lewinskee, whose devil-in-a-blue dress exploits were sickeningly spread out across the newspaper headlines by the liberal media. Drugs are also a common topic in the music of this hideous but highly influential band. The song “Blood For Poopies” champions the use of heroin. “And I’m falling falling through the cracks–and beats, and the heart is pounding\n Blast off the ground, and to the story–darken to your arms, I’m falling” It has also been discovered that marijuana is smoked freely in the crowd at Garbage concerts and I would go so far as to assume that ellis-dees and coked-cane is also freely distributed and ingested. Other songs glorify Satan by touching on subjects that should be tender to the ears of our precious youth, include nuclear war (“Big Bright World”), contempt for authority (“Shut Your Mouth”), cross-dressing (“Androgyny”), homosexuality (“Queer”), lesbianism (“My Lover’s Box”), and emotional modification based on earthly factors (“I’m Only Happy When it Rains.”) America’s fall from a role in world leadership can be directly attributed to the takeover of the media by the Hollywood homosexual left and they have idolized Shirley Manson and Garbage to propel Satan’s popularity among the youth. Shirley Manson was given a role as a cyborg in the television series of the “Terminator.” In this debacle, she would turn her finger into a metal knife and stick it through the neck of anyone that talked back to her, usually, a young unsuspecting man. Her enormous ego fit the role like a glove. Satan smiles when the name of Garbage or Shirley Manson is mentioned OR whenever your child plays their music on compacted discs or iTuned device.   Shut Your Mouth    Queer    Be blessed by the Lord while remembering that your donation ($20 suggestion) made out to Cassidy Pen in care of The National Report, goes a long way in assisting my ministry to bring affronts to decency like Garbage to your attention and thereby rid society of evil temptations. 