Obama’s Comments Send SONY Stock Into Freefall
SONY’s stock price plunged to an all-time low after President Obama’s critical remarks on Friday about the corporation’s decision to cancel the premiere of the Seth Rogen-James Franco comedy The Interview. When asked by a reporter whether SONY made the right decision, Obama responded “They made a mistake.” A petulant Obama added, “I wish they had spoken to me first.” ** BREAKING NEWS — SONY REPLIES TO OBAMA ** Wall Street analysts watched in stunned amazement as the corporation’s stock plummeted to 20.58, representing a loss of over 18 points from the day’s opening. One Wall Street analyst called the loss financially devastating. “The Street’s reaction was like nothing I’ve ever seen,” said conservative analyst Wil Albanese. “I think his remarks were irresponsible, immature, and unfair to the entire corporate community. I find it interesting that the President chose to criticize Sony, while saying nothing negative about North Korea.” Sony is still reeling from the black eye it received with news of the recent computer hacking scandal, where millions of intercepted confidential emails were published online. The breach – apparently initiated by North Korea – coupled with the cancellation of the highly promoted and anticipated Rogen-Franco comedy, “irreparably tarnished” the image and reputation of Sony Corporation, according to a confidential internal email leaked from Sony headquarters just this afternoon. Sony has spent a reported $3.3 million on publicity for the shelved film. “There seems to be a retaliatory motivation behind Obama’s slam against corporate America,” said former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin. The former GOP vice presidential nominee took to Facebook as Obama boarded Marine One en route to his 17-day Hawaiian vacation. “Well,” wrote Palin, “I guess we all should feel fortunate and honored that Obama bestowed a few few seconds out of his oh so busy day before hopping off to yet another island destination for an extended vacation of golf and partying with his buddies to throw us a bone. I guess Martha’s Vineyard is too cold this time of year for his U.S. constitution.” Whether Sony can fully repair the damage depends on several factors, the least of which is its corporate image. “Once a brand is damaged,” said Albanese, “the road to recovery is filled with many obstacles. Obama did not help corporate America today,” he added. “I had lunch with a well-known real estate mogul this afternoon who’s considering a run for office,” said Albanese with a sly wink, “and he just shook his head when we heard about the press conference. He said it was another Obama bungle that sucker-punched Sony and the entire business community square in the gut.” Monday’s opening bell will be closely watched by industry insiders and investors alike. Time will tell if Sony can get back on its feet, or if it will remain “down for the count.”