Abbott Apologizes for Sexism, Calls Julie Bishop A ‘MILF’
Australian Liberal Party leader Tony Abbott called his deputy Julie Bishop a "MILF" today during a press conference intended to apologize for past sexist remarks. Abbott was leaving the studios of Radio 2SM this morning in Sydney when a group of reporters asked him if he was planning to retract his comments about Liberal candidate Fiona Scott, whom he recently described as "young, feisty, and has a bit of sex appeal." The leader of the Coalition was characteristically unrepentant, but offered a regretful expression of a different sort. "The only apology I have to make is to all the other beautiful women in our party," Abbott declared. "I didn't mean to suggest that only our young female candidates are attractive. We got spicy sensual divas like Teresa Gambaro and Sophie Mirabella. And of course Julie Bishop, who's somewhat of a MILF as they say these days. She"s got that Princess Leia hair style, a generous backside and cold firm cantaloupes. "I'm not going to lie: I've thought about it. I have definitely thought about it. But ultimately I don't think it would be prudent since we work together. Julie and I can't be distracted by carnal desires. We need to be firmly focused on the needs of the Australian people." MILF is an acronym for "mother I'd like to f**k. It is often used colloquially to describe good-looking older women. Although it is commonly used in many English speaking countries, it is believed that this is the first time it has been invoked publicly by a major politician in Australia. Abbott has had a long history of insensitive comments, however, and was often accused of misogyny by former Prime Minister Julia Gillard. In 2010 he notably said it would be a "folly" to expect women to gain equal representation in parliament because  their "aptitudes, abilities and interests are different for physiological reasons." Today's speech proved that little has changed over the years, with Abbott even suggesting the Liberal Party begin recruiting candidates based on their attractiveness. "I wish we had more hot ones to look at on our side," he continued. "I've been trying to get Tanya Plibersek and Kate Ellis to switch parties for years. And I wouldn't mind a quick root with Julia Gillard either for that matter. Mutual hostility often makes for good times." A representative for Bishop says she has no comment on the matter. A spokesperson for Gillard says she has already refused his offer "on multiple occasions."