US Drones Report That Kim Jong Un Has Turned Himself Into A Monkey
If US drone reporting technology is correct, which it always has been, North Korea is playing with some larger toys in their nuclear sandbox than anyone could have imagined.  Their technological abilities appear to be far beyond what has ever been seen before.  TMZ has reported that they were able to intercept a classified Morse code message from a US drone sent from North Korea directly back to the White House.  The decoded transcript is below: Mr. President –  As requested, we continue to track Kim Jong Un’s whereabouts.  We’ve held continuous contact with him for several weeks.  This evening he disappeared from our radar.  We checked the batteries in our radar systems and everything checked out.  Using our newly developed reverse cloaking osmosis process, we were able to locate our subject.  We’re not really sure how to say this but Jim Jong Un has somehow turned himself into a monkey.  We triple checked the coordinates and then verified it when we captured this photo of a monkey reading a newspaper.  This is not a drill and this is not a joke.  We repeat, this is not a drill and this is not a joke. Kim Jong Un was a human one minute and a monkey the next.  For its own safety, we’re getting the drone the hell out of that area immediately.  Drone out. The White House has yet to make any comment on this fluid situation.  They have also not confirmed whether TMZ’s translation is accurate.  If this information is correct, which we will assume that it is, the relatively small nation of North Korea is a powerhouse to be reckoned with.  If they are able to turn people into monkeys, what else might they be capable of?  It’s frightening to even think about it. This recently uncovered information would explain why Kim Jong Un ordered for the release of all zoo monkeys.  It may also be a clue as to why there are so many bananas scattered all over the city streets.  It is clear that the crafty North Korean leader is setting up an environment where he can be fully camouflaged when he turns into a monkey. No one still, however, has been able to put any logic behind Dennis Rodman’s visit and hangout party with Kim Jong Un.  That remains a mystery.