Kim Kardashian Sues Owner of Roadside Diner Over ‘Fatback’ Sandwich
 Sandwich shops and delis across the nation are known to name popular items after famous celebrities.  It’s a trend made popular by New York’s Carnegie Deli, which boasts among other items, the “Woody Allen” – made with corned beef and pastrami, and familiar to fans of Allen’s 1984 film Broadway Danny Rose.Many would say to be immortalized in food would be a badge of honor, but reality star and social media personality Kim Kardashian disagrees.  She has taken legal steps to disassociate her name from one menu item she finds distasteful.Kardashian filed suit against “Baggazi’s” a small Santa Monica roadside diner, over her novelty sandwich made up of “a generous portion of fatback, topped with 2 steaming poached eggs.”  “Fatback” is a layer of fat and skin cut from the back of a domestic pig.“It’s just going too far,” said a weeping Kardashian during a press conference attended by Kardashian family members including mother Kim, sisters Kourtney and Khloé, and half-sisters Kendall and Kylie Jenner, also weeping.  Kardashian’s husband Kanye, who was not present, was busy preparing for an upcoming concert in Kyoto, Japan.“I’m having trouble taking off the last few pounds of my baby weight,” Kardashian explained through sobs, “and this sandwich is mean spirited, insensitive and just not fair.  I work hard at things and this isn’t something I endorse for my public image and it also invades my family’s privacy and our good name.”Proprietor Joe Baggazi doesn’t get what the fuss is all about.  “It’s a sandwich for Christ sake, like ham and eggs, just with a famous name is all,” said Baggazi from behind the counter of his small shop.  “What am I supposed to do, name a skinny sandwich now after somebody skinny?  The skinny people would be complaining I guess about that then.”The attention brought by the lawsuit has been good for business, admits Baggazi.  “I got lines out the door and around the corner,” he said.  “If I have to change the name of the sandwich I guess I will, ‘cause I don’t have that kind of money if they sue me, but everyone’s gonna know which sandwich it is anyway, so I’ll call it the ‘You-Know-Who’ sandwich instead if I have to,” he added with a wink.Baggazi then excused himself to tend to waiting customers who were beginning to form a long line.