Roommates To Write Letters To Every Billionaire Asking For “A Pretty Easy $100,000 Job”
Simon and Miles have been roommates for nearly 2 years now.  They both have a nearly non-existent work ethic and only keep jobs because they have to.  The majority of their time is spent smoking weed, talking about stuff, and masturbating over things they will never have.  The two friends believe that they come up with ideas that they need to share with the world. Miles brought up to Simon, the other day, that there should be a pod system that the government should put in place.  “We could get rid of cars entirely,” started Miles.  “They would be suction tubes like when you go to the bank.  We could travel in those tubes.  We could have them installed in the back of our microwaves.  Then we could order food from any restaurant and they would send a hot meal right through the tube into our house.  We have flooding in some places and droughts in other places.  We could position the tubes to suction water from one place to the other so everyone could get what they need.  I mean, I know it would cost a lot of money but wouldn’t it be worth it?” Simon eyes lit up before he responded.  “You’re a genius, Miles.  The government would never do this but what about all the billionaires who have more money than they know what to do with.  We should share our ideas with them.  They could pay us.  Yeah, we come up with the ideas and then they have people who would actually do the stuff.  They could make money off of our ideas.  We would just sit there and think of crazy stuff like we do now but it would help the billionaires and it would help the world.  We don’t need much.  They could pay us like $100,000 a year to do what we already do now.  There’s got to be one of those bastards that is just crazy enough to buy into this idea.” Miles and Simon agreed that this may be their best idea yet.  It would get them out of their shitty jobs, crappy apartment, and a lifestyle they both detest.  They agreed that they would write every billionaire around the world a personalized letter proposing this unprecedented think tank idea.  One would surely bite.  Miles went so far as to pull up a list in a  google search of all the billionaires in the world, but that’s as far as they got.  The two friends started talking about the spork and questioned why no other utensils were combined like this.  Simon came up with the idea of a fife, which would combine the talents of a fork and a knife.  Somehow he was able to justify how this utensil would be able to work in such a way where you could cut your steak with it and then put it in your mouth to eat it too.  Looks like that $100,000 job may not be coming quite as soon as the pair thought.