Time Warner Cable, Texas Corrections Working On “Gladiator TV” Network
If Time Warner Cable gets their way, death row inmates in the State of Texas might soon get a second chance at life, but only if they manage to defeat — or even kill — their fellow inmates in a brutal televised fighting match on a new network tentatively titled “Gladiator TV.” The premise of the network is quite simple: Texas State Corrections would allow death row inmates, and possibly even prisoners with life sentences, to fight each other with various types of weapons in a gladiatorial arena. If an inmate manages to win 25 fights, they’ll win $1,000,000 and their freedom, on the condition that they leave the United States and never return. Fights on the network might end in death, though inmates can “yield” to stop a fight. Fights are also stopped if an inmate is knocked unconscious, or if a referee determines they cannot continue fighting. However, if a fighter loses a bout, they also lose all of their previous saved-up wins and must start everything over from scratch in order to continue. Gladiator TV would be a 24-hour television network focused entirely on the fighters and their battles. It would feature the fights, which would take place in a proposed $170 million stadium built outside of Dallas called “The Coliseum,” the first of which would begin to air one year after the TV network goes live. In the meantime, the network would show reality shows about all of the different fighters, and would include “Most Wanted”- style shows, fitness programs, and news programs focused on the network. Gladiator TV’s brainchild is Mike West, a Time Warner executive with a penchant for what he calls “warrior entertainment.” He first came up with the concept of the network in 2003, after watching a boxing match featuring Roy Jones Jr. vs. John Ruiz, which he helped develop for Pay-Per-View. Since then, West has been heavily involved in HBO boxing and, more recently, UFC, where he’s become Time Warner’s point-man for ultimate fighting. “I think of Gladiator TV as the `final frontier’ of warrior entertainment,” West says. “Humans of every culture have always enjoyed watching brave men battle it out. In contemporary times, it was boxing for many decades, and now it’s UFC. Gladiator TV is the next step in this evolution, and brings us back to Roman times, when gladiator fighting was the most popular form of entertaining the masses.” West says the Roman gladiators inspired Gladiator TV. “We’re hoping to stylize the network after Roman gladiator fights, but with a few modern twists. Fighters will face off in an arena, on sand. They’ll use Greco-Roman weaponry, including swords, shields, nets, tridents, and spears. But the stadium will have world-class medical facilities and an experienced team of paramedics, doctors, and surgeons. These fights might end in death, but they don’t necessarily have to.” Officials in the State of Texas haven’t publicly acknowledged the network yet, despite West and other Time Warner executives discussing the network publicly. Texas Governor Rick Perry is expected to make a major announcement involving the network once both sides officially sign a deal, which West says he expects “imminently.”