Sarah Palin Calls On Obama To Invade Ebola
During an appearance as guest and host on The Sarah Palin Channel, former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin called on President Obama to apply “swift and immediate ‘invasionary’ action” against Ebola. A partial transcript of her “Open Verbal Letter On the Nation’s Behalf” reads: Dear Mr. President: I call on you to immediately apply swift and immediate invasionary action against Ebola, located in [the] continent of Africa. A dangerous and immediate threat to our freedoms and security is directly aimed at us from Ebola.  It has demonstrated this against America and her allies and is inappropriate for us as a country.  Because of the democratically elected traditions that you so obviously do not respect, I must ask you this:  Why not put your past examples of outrageous abuses of power to good use and invade the evil Ebola empire? Our patriotic hard-working troops are on the ground in Afghanistan and Iraq, but do we not have enough vast National Guardsmen and oh yes, Guardswomen also to get the job done swiftly and with military strength? How many more American heads must be cut off at your hands with their blood at your feet before you take action, Mr. President?  Ebola has taken its toll on our friends who no longer respect us across the universe, and soon Ebola’s trained military forces will infiltrate our country due to immigration policies that you have also not acted swiftly upon, and far too many examples exist of your general weaknesses that you have so strongly demonstrated. Military leadership and force must deal with Ebola.  Mustered together, clearly you can take the time to show a small bit of backbone, in-between your jet-setting fundraisers on Martha’s Vineyard, when ironically here across our great plains, we beg for the leadership that only falls upon deaf ears? And speaking of them ironically, your ears which seem big on the outside are so tiny on the inside that they so refusedly listen to the worldwide appeal for the immediate overthrow of Ebola before its recruitment efforts double or triple against us and our allies who look toward us to blockade Ebola by land and sea? I was once famously known for the phrase Drill, baby, drill!  What will it take for us as a country to drill it into your head, Mr. President, that we must stop Ebola at the border and the security threat it poses against us. INVADE EBOLA NOW, MR. PRESIDENT.  It is the least you can do for a country that has paid handsomely for your room and board for the past 8 years on the taxpayer’s dime.  If it’s not too much to ask when you get back from your latest foreign trip, that is. Can you hear me, Mr. President?  Can you hear any of us at all from your golf cart while the rest of us toil feverishly? God Bless America. Sincerely,  Sarah Louise Palin, American Portions of this transcript were edited for clarity.  The full text can be seen on Sarah Palin’s official Facebook page.