Presumed Boy Genius Splits The Atom But Didn’t Even Know Someone Did That Already
The nowhere town of Hutchinson, Kansas is widely regarded as one of the most boring towns in America.  Year after year they make the list of places ‘I’d rather die than visit.’  As you might imagine, nothing even remotely exciting happens in Hutchinson.  Last year the town was buzzing about a stray dog that, for a moment, appeared that he would stay in the town.  He didn’t stay. What happened during the summer school sessions at Hutchinson Middle School 7 – USD 308, all things considered, is comparable to someone actually discovering the fountain of youth. Science teacher, Mrs. Davis, asked her class to present their thoughts on animal adaptations in the most creative way they could think of.  One dumb kid did a presentation on how camels hold water in their humps.  Another tried to prove that giraffes are tall so they can eat stuff other animals can’t reach.  Mrs. Davis reminded the children that evolution is a myth and it is God who makes things happen.  All of the very well-behaved children clapped. Alan Blades, the “weird kid” that everyone is scared of, came up with his microscope and some strange contraption.  He proceeded to pull a piece of uranium from his back pocket and show the class how to split an atom.  An amazed Mrs. Davis ran through the school yelling, “There is a genius among us!  Right here.  Right here in Hutchinson there is a genius we can call our own!”  The rest of the children awkwardly hugged Alan and told him he was a hero.  The mayor, not seen in the town in months, held a pot luck for Alan and his family to celebrate. The mayor, Alan, and a group of residents piled into the town bus to take a rare journey to Wichita to show off their young prodigy.  After Alan performed his same experiment, Wichita city leaders brought up the fact that although this was impressive it had been accomplished nearly 80 years ago.  The celebration quickly turned into an inquisition.  Was Alan capable of or planning to use his skills to build an atom bomb?  Were the residents of Hutchinson behind him in his terrorist pursuits?  How exactly does a young boy in a small town get his hands on uranium?  How could a boy this smart not know that this feat had already been accomplished?  Something was not right. Fearing the worst, residents quickly re-branded Alan as the “weird kid” who kept to himself and everyone was fearful of.  “You can have him,” said his teacher Mrs. Davis.  “As you can see, we’ve tried everything we know how to do to see the best in him but it has become clear to us that he is a threat to our town and to society in general.  Do what you will with the little monster.” The citizens of Hutchinson, including Alan’s parents, boarded their bus and headed back to their simpler lives.  Each person thanked God for their simple lives and thanked Him for purging the town of young Alan before he hurt someone.  Alan was questioned by the FBI and is believed to currently be in an experimental government program that does something so secretive that all anyone can do is just trust the process.