Man Questions Whether His Electric Pencil Sharpener Is Still State Of The Art Technology
They say when a man has too much time to think it can be a dangerous thing.  That couldn’t be more true for recently retired boat motor salesman, Jerry Stewart. “I’ve got a lot of extra time on my hands these days,” says Stewart.  “I’m used to top of the line stuff.  I was sharpening my pencil today and a few questions came to mind.  Is this the Mercury inboard 90EXLPT motor of the pencil sharpening world?  Isn’t there a phone or a computer these days that would sharpen your pencil for you?  Am I so far behind that we’ve moved beyond using pencils?  I’ve been so engrossed in the motor world that I’ve lost sight of these important things.  I have a lot of research to do.” Jerry tossed and turned that evening and didn’t get much sleep.  He kept hearing the sound of shoving his pencil into that sharpener.  There’s a rush about the noise it makes.  Like a motor.  It scares you a little because if your hand gets too close it will get chopped right off.  But if you are safe, it is a pure and invigorating rumble. Jerry woke up, showered, and headed straight out to the shopping district the next morning.  His plan was to hit Office Max and Staples to find out more about this pencil sharpener quandary he was having.  He arrived at Office Max and sat in the parking lot for about 30 minutes.  He watched some hot young girls pass by and then laughed when he saw a dog take a shit right in the middle of the parking lot.  Most of all, he looked over at his pencil sharpener friend that was propped up in the passenger’s seat beside him.  He realized that his pencil sharpener may not be the newest or the top of the line, but it had been with him for at least 3 years now.  A dear old friend.  Jerry did finally go into the store but he didn’t ask about pencil sharpeners.  He bought about 100 pencils and planned to have quite an afternoon with his old friend, mashing and destroying pencils with power and polish. Jerry isn’t quite sure what tomorrow will bring, but this has been quite an enlightening day.