Clinton 2016: Hillary’s Announcement Imminent; New Makeover Team Hired
As Democrats lick their wounds over last Tuesday’s midterm trouncing, is more fuel being added to fire up Hillary Clinton’s impending presidential campaign announcement? “Yes” say insiders, as news comes that the former Secretary of State hired a brand new styling team after abruptly firing her old personal image managers. According to a member of Clinton’s household staff, Hil was ‘extremely upset’ with a new haircut and makeover she received and was overheard yelling at members of her team: “How could you do this to me? Have you paid any attention to what I’m about to do?” Clinton sent her staff scrambling to immediately find a new crew of makeover specialists, reportedly refusing to take part in any public appearances until the new cut grows out, and the new look is just right. Clinton’s staff attributes the September 26 birth of her first grandchild for her sudden drop-off in visibility. “Normally a staff change like this would not be big news,” says appearance management advisor Freida Montgomery. “But reduced visibility right after the party she hopes to lead just got crushed by the Republicans means her image is extremely important to her at this moment. She needs to back away from the President as soon as she can, define her own image, and start undoing the damage he’s done to the party. If she doesn’t, she’ll end up looking weaker than Obama does now.” The assumption that Clinton would again run for President began practically the day after she lost the 2008 Democratic nomination to then largely unknown Chicago-style candidate Senator Barack Obama. The question persisted during her tenure as the nation’s 67th Secretary of State during his first term. The sooner Clinton cuts the cord connecting her to Obama the better off she’ll be. In light of the President’s emasculation by the GOP on Tuesday, and with full control of the Senate returning to Republicans, the only way the Democrats can stop the bleeding is for someone – in this case Hillary – to create a bigger headline. She’s elected – this time around – but if she keeps stalling, her lack of decisiveness will be seen as another Obama holdover, and the American public has seen enough of that. She’d better grab some Rogaine and start weaving her way through the campaign trail asap. Someone from the party’s got to show some chest hair after all this time.