Cliven Bundy Runs For Congress In Nevada; Joe The Plumber: ‘He’s Got My Vote!’
Cattle rancher Cliven Bundy has been called a lot of things: patriot, conservative folk hero, racist, defender of the land, but soon – if Nevada’s 4th Congressional district residents have their way – he’ll be called Congressman. “At first I flat-out said ‘no’ because I’m no politician – far from it,” said Bundy. “But then I started getting calls from all over. One of my personal heroes, Joe the Plumber called me up and said there are a lot of people out there just exactly like him who believe I could make a difference here in Nevada. Well I thought about that and then said I’d do it. Joe told me he’d do everything he could to help so I went and filed the papers. I joked with him that at least I’d lock up the plumber votes!” “Cliven Bundy stands for all the things this country has stood for,” said nearby Mesquite resident Nannie Doss. “He earned his right to speak for us and he proved that he won’t back down from a fight, no matter what. I like that. I wish there were a hundred more just like him!” Bundy’s standoff with Bureau of Land Management rangers brought him instant folk hero status. The conflict began in 1993, when without notice, the Bureau changed decades-old rules on cattle grazing. Bundy refused to renew his grazing permit, was fined, and eventually charged with trespassing on federal property. In April of 2014 after armed federal agents started rounding up Bundy’s cattle, locals showed up to defend the rancher’s rights and to protest the government’s stranglehold. Government agents eventually backed down to avoid an armed conflict. “When they put a hand on my cattle and I stood my ground,” said Bundy, “that’s when my friends came locked and loaded to back me up. I guess that’s why people want me to stand up and speak for them. It would be an honor to serve those kinds of Americans,” he added. In recent weeks, the Bundy ranch and surrounding roads have remained “free and clear of federal authorities,” although the rancher does not remain confident that government agents or left-wing agitators will stay away. “Mess like that’s always a stone’s throw away when regulator types and troublemakers stick their nose in,” said Bundy, “but now I’ve got the campaign to figure out. If I do get in, there will be some big law changes made, that’s for certain. We need to take things back.”