Man backs down in Internet argument
A man has stunned the world of social media by recanting his formally ‘bulletproof’ assertions made on the Internet, it can be revealed. Forum user ‘Conspiri_Sim0n’, 37 , from ‘Hobbiton on the Shire’ said that he wished to withdraw comments 4 thru 317 from a discussion thread below a YouTube video on Tuesday, in a move thought to be the first of its kind since the demise of Netscape Navigator. ‘Furthermore I would like to apologise to the concerned user, and concede that after careful consideration that I find her points plausible and moreover, likely correct in respect of the dispute to which we were party to’ he went on, ‘Her logical rebuttal of my reactionary rhetoric has largely invalidated my position.’ The argument -seemingly unrelated to a 4 second clip of a fully dressed dog on a skateboard- centred around the plot of ‘King Kong’ and whether the much maligned beast had scaled the Empire State or Chrysler building. Within 7 minutes of the correct answer appearing, ‘Conspiri_Sim0n’ had already threatened to ‘bike across town’ and ‘shoot’ any gorillas that ‘Q33n_K0ng’ might own, likened her to a small fire-starting bundle of twigs and said that she was ‘Worse than space-Nazis’. ‘I tried everything’ he said, ‘Repeating my sentences continually without expanding upon them, quoting lines from her replies and picking out minor grammaratical mistakes, blatantly demonstrating that I have no grasp on when to use the words ‘imply’ and ‘infer’ and even several regrettable comments about her thumbnail picture, it was exhausting. I don’t know really how it happened, but after I came back from loo with another can of Redbull, it just suddenly dawned on me that I was wrong, and had been for at least 6 hours, probably most of my life.’ he mused philosophically ‘I’m not inferring that it was a spiritual experience, but it was a kind of epiphany.’ Wikipedia co-founder Jimmy Wales said that he really hoped that the memes of introspection, respect and considered debate might go viral and eventually permeate all aspects of a free yet secure worldwide network, though he later conceded that there was a ‘fat f*cking chance of that.’ ‘Q33n_K0ng’, the erstwhile offended party in the discussion accepted the apology ‘on behalf of all peoples who were right, you were wrong, your a idiot, kaythnxbye!’