Amanda Bynes Cast In ‘Twin Peaks’ Comeback
While it is not known how many members of the original cast will be returning to reprise their roles; a new casting decision has apparently already been made. 28-year-old Amanda Bynes has reportedly been cast as a new character, Edith Cross. As the new season is still in the early stages; it is not yet known how many episodes will feature Bynes’s character. Attempts to contact Amanda Bynes’s publicist for more information about her role in ‘Twin Peaks’ have not been answered at press time. “Casting Bynes is a surprising move considering the actress’ recent personal problems with substance abuse,” said Hollywood insider Chip Francis. “As recently as late September she was in trouble with the law. One can only assume Lynch and Frost know what they are doing here and see something in Ms. Bynes that exemplifies this particular character.” Bynes was arrested on September 28th, 2014 on DUI charges, her second since 2012. Bynes was also ruled to be under the influence of what police referred to as “an unknown controlled substance” at the time of her most recent arrest. Various press outlets have been reporting that Bynes has been seen “talking to inanimate objects” recently in public. General consensus appears to be that Bynes has allegedly been on controlled substances during the recent sightings of her “appearing disheveled” in public. However, Francis disagrees, “It’s quite possible that Ms. Bynes is just preparing for her upcoming role on the show (Twin Peaks). As the new season is so early in development, it would be folly to jump to the simple conclusion that ‘Amanda Bynes is high again’. Considering the strange nature of anything David Lynch does, this could just be part of her preparations for her character. Of course the media is quick to judge and due to Ms. Bynes’s past she is not likely to get the benefit of the doubt.” More optimistic entertainment insiders hope this casting will help revitalize the former teen star’s career. “Amanda Bynes has already had a tough life. I hope Twin Peaks will bring her back on to the right path,” said actor Glenn Dawson. “I means we’ve seen this kind of thing work wonders for actors like John Travolta, Courtney Love and Mickey Rourke. Perhaps this is Amanda’s time to shine.”