Will Ferrell, Tina Fey To Star In Sequel To ‘The Notebook’
After years of anticipation, fans of Nicolas Sparks will be excited to hear the Notebook 2 novel will be released on Valentine’s Day of this year. Coming as no surprise to anyone, the no-doubt tear-jerker of a book already has a film deal inked in Hollywood, and New Line Cinema has announced they have signed actors Will Ferrell and actress Tina Fey to the project.“We felt that these two marvelous, amazing, superb actors could use a more serious project to add to their colorful resumes, adding just a touch of romance into their portfolio,” said New Line CEO Hal Goldbrook. “We, too, had heard the rumors of Brad Pitt and Jennifer Aniston being signed to this film, hoping to reunite the once power couple – at least on screen – but the signing of Ferrell and Fey is one to look forward to, we can promise you that.”“I am elated to be starring in this movie. Both myself and Will look forward to a great time romancing each other over an entire summer while filming,” said Fey. “The book, which we got some advanced copies of, is a true Sparks’ masterpiece.” While the popular actress typically works in a comedic atmosphere, this romantic drama is sure to be outstanding, as a source close to the production tells Empire News that with the film’s script and production, it’s shaping up to be far better than the original.“The story is set to begin with a couple who are in their early 30′s, the coming of adulthood, and indulging in their crazy relationship. It’s going to work really well with Tina and I, for sure. As actors, we can play anything, and pretending to be a young couple, I think it will be very believable. With scenes depicting their children, struggles, and everyday work and home life in the 1960′s,” said Ferrell. “It’s some really deep stuff. I’ve never seen the original, because I don’t really like movies, but from what I hear, it was pretty good. No doubt this will be better. Much better cast this time around.”“The film is being made by the same Producer, Lynn Harris, and director Nick Cassavetes, to capture the same great chemistry created with the 2004 original release,” said Goldbrook. “The film will be filming this summer, and will hit theatres in time for next Valentine’s Day.”