CNN Photo Of Bird Stalking Missing Malaysian Airliner Raises Even More Questions
After weeks of misinformation, disinformation, and wild conspiracy theories we have finally have some hard facts about Malaysian flight 370.  CNN was able to acquire a photo that clearly shows some kind of bird stalking the now missing plane.  Although it does raise quite a few more questions, this new development does serve as another clue to get us closer to the truth. “Not so fast,” warns a terrorism expert Bruce Reed as he is interviewed by CNN anchor Brooke Baldwin.  ”Yes, it does appear accurate that we have a bird getting dangerously close to this plane right before it disappeared.  We all know that pictures are facts and cannot be altered.  That said, I have several sources that tell me terrorist organizations that cannot afford drones are now employing birds to do their dirty work.  Is it a Seagull or a Tern or some sort of Velociraptor that we thought was extinct?  Was it under some sort of mind control?  And how did it fly at nearly 45,000 feet without having its wings fall off?  We just don’t know, Brooke.  We just don’t know.” For her part, Baldwin encouraged her guest by interrupting several times with an “ohhh” and “geesh.”  Reed, who once thought about becoming a terrorist, continued. “We have almost 300 people missing, Brooke.  And children.  They are all missing.  Did the bird eat them or is the plane in another dimension that is ruled by these birds?  If we can’t find this monster of a plane with all of our technology I can’t really thing of too many more believable explanations.  But the thing is, Brooke, we just don’t know.  We don’t know and that’s scary as hell!” The now fateful picture, followed by Mr. Reed’s interview, has stirred up the imagination and terror in so many law abiding citizens around the world.  One blogger seemed to sum up the sentiments of so many when ‘zapper gobbler’ wrote on a Yahoo board, “I never really liked birds but never believed that it would come to this.” No, ‘zapper gobbler,’ no one did.  As governments around the globe feverishly work together in concert to come up with facts, each species of bird on every corner of the planet will be pulled out of the sky for further testing.  It is believed there are approximately 10,000 species of birds.  Each species will be captured and studied thoroughly as the world continues to seek answers.  Biologists want to know but now national security agencies want to know if there is one more species of bird out there that we never knew about.  A species that may be capable of plucking a giant airplane right out of the sky.  Right now, we just don’t know.