JELL-O Deficiency Linked To Carpal Tunnel Syndrome
Workers at Kraft Foods, Inc. couldn’t be happier in these less than certain economic times.  For them, the future looks bright and shiny.Jack Pepper, production manager for Kraft Foods’ JELL-O Division said, “We just read a report from the National Council on Osteopathy, and they say gelatin helps relieve carpal tunnel syndrome!  We couldn’t be happier!”Carpal tunnel syndrome results when unnatural, repetitive pressure is placed on the median nerve located in the wrist.  Symptoms include numbness, tingling, shooting pains into the hand, and compromised hand movement.“Gelatin is a natural fleor,” said Dr. Ambrose Seelig, of Baltimore’s Johns Hopkins Medical Center.  Dr. Seelig coordinated a groundbreaking gelatin study after his dog, Joy, accidentally ate an entire JELL-O mold that he and his veterinarian wife had made for a pot-luck dinner.“Joy’s not supposed to have table scraps, but she’s a tricky one.  She’s 14, and starting to show signs of slowing down – the usual things that happen with a dog of a certain age,” said the doctor.  “She was having a lot of trouble with her joints; they were stiffening, and her paw actually had what in humans would be diagnosed as carpal tunnel.  She scratched at the door so much with repetitive paw movements, so her mobility became compromised.”“Then, I had an ‘Oprah Moment,’” said Seelig.  “Well, that’s what my wife called it.”Two days after Joy ate the JELL-O mold, her mobility increased and even her coat looked shinier.  “I thought I was imagining things,” said the doctor, “but my wife confirmed it!”Joy’s paw was becoming more mobile.“We kept feeding her JELL-O,” said Dr. Seelig.  “She loves it!  She thinks she’s getting a treat, but she’s actually involved in good, sound medical research!”Dr. Seelig wondered if the JELL-O treatment could produce the same result for two-legged sufferers.Human trials were arranged at a testing facility in Maryland.  An ad was placed on craigslist asking for volunteers who suffered from the syndrome.“We had personalized bowls of JELL-O lined up, ready and waiting for the volunteers,” said Seelig.  Some of them were disappointed that they weren’t receiving experimental drugs.  A few severe cases couldn’t even shake hands or hold a spoon when they walked in, but after a month, their symptoms had disappeared, or were greatly reduced.”“Our division is working ’round the clock,” said Jack Pepper, as he supervised production from the busy JELL-O floor.  “We’ve even had to hire a new midnight shift!  It’s great!  I look out here and all I see for miles and miles are happy employees pulling levers up and down, back and forth, again and again and again; boxing gelatin, hand-mixing flavors, sealing bags, over and over and over again — 24/7!  Everyone’s thrilled!”Vegan activists are hoping for an equivalent therapy, as most gelatin products are derived from the skin, bones, hooves, and connective tissue of animals, and therefore not fit for human consumption.“Joy’s doing great!” says Dr. Seelig.  “Except for her green tongue. She likes the melon flavor now, though,” he said.