Chicken Wing Giveaway Nabs Welfare Cheats
A group of 158 government freeloaders found their gooses cooked, when instead of receiving free chicken wings from the USDA, they were arrested and charged with food stamp fraud. It was all part of a Washington DC based FBI sting operation dubbed “Project Wingman,” set up to target welfare cheats and food stamp scammers whose numbers have ballooned during the Obama administration. Prize vouchers inviting crooks to a complimentary “Wing Ding” buffet were mailed to over 500 Washington DC area residents suspected of using phony documentation to steal from taxpayers. The vouchers were redeemable for a 10 pound bag of frozen wings. “These criminals basically turned themselves in,” said Det. John Francis Smith of the FBI. When suspects arrived at the redemption center, outfitted to look like a fast food restaurant, they were greeted by undercover officer Adam Byrd – dressed in a chicken suit – who asked if they were here for the “Wing Ding.” Byrd collected the redemption vouchers, and government eligibility cards were compared against a list of bogus documents. “We didn’t let on there was any problem,” said Smith. We had big smiles on our faces when we told them to step back into the Wing Ding Lounge to enjoy the buffet.” The “lounge” was a mobile holding pen, complete with steam tables and a chef, also an undercover officer. While enjoying their free samples, the spongers were arrested and charged with government fraud, some with their mouths full. Reporter Philip Gallus, posing as a prize winner, spoke to one scammer who told him how easy it is these days to cheat the government. “He said there were hundreds of loopholes and it’s easy now with Obama who he called ‘Sugar Daddy President.’ This guy had a dozen different IDs and said he could teach me how to beat the system. He wanted to take me under his wing. I felt like I was in a bad ’70’s movie,” said Gallus. In the age of Obama phones and out-of-control government handouts, maybe we’re all in a bad 70’s movie. The reign of food stamp kings and queens is on the rise. The drop in criminal prosecutions ordered by Obama means the problem will worsen before it improves. “It’s like having Jimmy Carter back in the White House,” said Gallus. “My parents told me how bad things were back then, and now they say things are worse. I guess it’s going to be even tougher for my kids,” he added.