Will and Jada Smith Adopt a White Baby
Hollywood power couple Will Smith and Jada Pinkett Smith have revealed they are expanding their family by adopting a child. The proud parents told People magazine that they are in the final stages of adopting Nicolae, a 1-year-old who hails from the Eastern European country of Moldova. “We are super excited that we’ll be adding another source of joy to our lives,” Jada and Will told People columnist Maya Gallo. “We have visited Nicolae dozens of times and he’s just a lovely, wonderful baby. I’m sure he’s as excited as we are that he’ll be coming home with us.” Will, 44, and Jada, 41, have been married since 1997 and have two children together, Willow and Jaden, and a son from Will’s first marriage. The couple often boasts of their superior parenting skills and devotion to their children. Will and Jada said they were inspired to adopt thanks to fellow actors such as Angelina Jolie and Madonna who have adopted children from foreign countries. The Smiths looked at adoptions in Romania, Ukraine and Serbia before a friend suggested Moldova, a former Soviet republic and one of Europe’s poorest countries. "Interracial adoption is just so hot right now," Will explained,  "It's done wonders for Angelina's career, and following the whole After Earth thing, I'm hoping for a similar boost." The Smiths said they fell in love with baby Nicolae when they met him three months ago at an orphanage in Moldova’s capital, Chisinau. “I saw Nicolae in his crib and I was instantly taken with him,” Will said. “He had beautiful blue eyes, blond hair and wrinkly pink skin. I turned to Jada and I said, ‘Honey, this is the one.’ ” “We find magic in the mundane,” Jada said. “Some people might think going to an orphanage in a poor country to look at abandoned children is sad. But we saw it as another reason to grow closer together while bringing joy to another child.” “It takes a great man to have that instant feeling toward a child that’s not your own,” Will added. “The fact that it’s a white baby makes our adoption much more inspiring to people who strive to be just like us.” The Smiths’ two children Willow, 12, and Jaden, 14, have already entered show business: Jaden is an actor and Willow recorded a hit song, “Whip My Hair.” “Both of are children will be 18 and living their own lives before we know it because we’ve prepared them so well for life,” Jada said. “But Will and I have no desire to be empty nesters. We have too much love, compassion and wisdom to offer.” “Why wouldn’t you want us to raise more children,” Will added. “Just look at how great our own children have turned out.” However, Will and Jada declined to say if they plan to have Nicolae follow them and their children into entertainment. “I want to inspire Nicolae to become everything he dreams and even the things he never dreamed,” Will said. “If he wants to be an actor, a director, a musician, a dancer or something equally amazing, it will be his choice. “I think Nicolae is going to be the greatest child in the whole world thanks to Jada and me."