Justin Bieber Compares Himself to Jesus
Justin Bieber directly compared himself to Jesus Christ today. In an interview with a Norwegian news magazine Bieber claimed that he's on "a similar mission" to that of the Christian prophet and "totally thinks" that Jesus would have been a fan of his music. Bieber's remarks come just a day after he signed the logbook at the Anne Frank house "would have been a Belieber," implying that if she had survived the holocaust Frank would have been a Justin Bieber fan. "I think its pretty obvious that Anne would have been into me," Bieber told Here and Now magazine this morning. "She was 15 years old. No boyfriend. That's pretty much my key demo. "If I had been around back then, I totally would have given her a free concert ticket. She deserved one after all that Hitler stuff you know?" Bieber's narcissism stunned the Norwegian reporter, and he decided to goad the tween idol into making even more self-serving comments. "Justin, you've certainly had a lot of success. But you wouldn't compare yourself to the likes of Nirvana, the Rolling Stones, or the Beatles would you?" "Dude I'm way bigger than the Beatles," Bieber responded. "What I'm doing, it's very similar to what Jesus was doing. I bring light and hope into people's lives where before there was none. "I hear the comparison all the time. People come up to me and they're like 'Wow it's like meeting Jesus.' It's pretty cool. We're on similar missions he and I." "You don't find that arrogant to make such a comparison?" the interviewer inquired. "You know I don't think it's arrogant at all. I understand why Christians would want to compare Jesus to me. It makes a lot of sense really, and I'm glad their lord and savior reminds them of my greatness. "In fact I'm a pretty devoted Christian myself. I even have a tattoo of J.C. on my leg. I totally think that dude would have been a fan of my music if he hadn't been killed by Judas or whatever. "That sucks when cool people get killed. What happened to Anne was especially messed up. But if Anne Frank had survived the holocaust, I like to think we could have worshiped Jesus together." Justin Bieber is an internationally best selling tween recording artist originally from Canada. He is currently touring Europe on his Believe Tour and his ex-girlfriend recently said he has a small penis.