SOA’s Charlie Hunnam, Longtime Girlfriend Expecting Baby?
Rumor has it that SOA’s Charlie Hunnam is going to be a dad. The British hunk, known for his role of Jax Teller in FX’s Sons of Anarchy, was seen having an intimate dinner with his longtime girlfriend, Morgana McNelis, on January 11, 2015, nearby their California home. Sources say McNelis had a “prominent stomach bulge”, and was obvious about avoiding any alcoholic beverages during the dinner. The news comes barely a week after a The English-Sun Times, a popular British magazine, announced the couple were newly engaged. According to the magazine, they were “seen closely eyeing some pricey bling in a couple of major jewelry stores – especially major diamond baubles that could only be described as the kind usually slipped on a woman’s left-hand ring finger.” The 34-year old actor is already once divorced, after a short marriage to actress Katharine Towne from 1999 to 2002. He and McNelis have been together since 2007 and despite living together, the pair have yet to make a legal commitment to one another. A source close to the couple has reportedly confirmed they are expecting, and have finally decided to tie the knot before the baby arrives. A representative for Hunnam allegedly told media sources that they “do not comment on Charlie’s personal life”, not confirming or denying the news. Social media sites have quickly picked up the news, spreading it like wildfire. The actor’s representative has apparently only made the media storm surrounding the actor worse with his words. Hunnam and McNelis have always tried to stay out of the eye of the public; so much so that they’ve purchased a house outside of the busy city of Los Angeles, and are raising farm animals for sustenance. McNelis is a private jewelry designer, who has managed to successfully thwart most public appearances in the almost decade she’s been dating Hunnam. Friends of the couple claim that marriage and family is “inevitable” for them; that they are a committed couple who support and uplift one another. McNelis has always been supportive of Hunnam’s work, and even encouraged him to take the racy, sexy role of Christian Grey in the 50 Shades of Grey movie. Women all over the world are heartbroken that the sexy star is officially off the market. On Twitter alone, 82% of women, single or not, have declared that they are “Mrs. Jax Teller”, or at least the next “Mrs. Charlie Hunnam”. The staff at National Report congratulate Hunnam and McNelis on their engagement, and extend sincere wishes of a healthy pregnancy and baby.