After Obama, Can A White Man Ever Be Elected to the Oval Office?
Nigel J. Covington III\nEditor-in-Chief With the overwhelming popularity and success of the Obama Administration in the past six years many in America are asking… Can a white man ever hold the office of president again? With the next presidential election just two years away both Republicans and Democrats are having to struggle with this question as they plan their upcoming election strategies. Over the last six years Democrats have enjoyed a scandal free and clean administration. The country has enjoyed six years of steady growth, the lowest unemployment rate in the last 50 years, a booming economy and a national health care system second to none. No matter how one cuts the pie it’s the American people who’ve prospered under this administration. Of course Obama had the whole “I’m black” thing going for him at election time which no doubt secured him the presidency. And of course Obama used his office to get away with murder and much more, but hey name one president who hasn’t. Americans understand why anyone including old college buddies, girl or boyfriends, transvestite prostitutes, and others who likely have some dirt on any newly elected president has to be killed for reasons of national security. And why should we expect any different from an undocumented black Muslim president? No its the shameless conservative Tea Partiers who hate America and everything she stands for who tried to smear Obama’s good name by bringing these felonies and terrible scandals into the light for all to see. Its these racist scum who’ve scandalized the president’s policies and are to blame for the nasty stigma that Americans are a nation of incredibly intolerant racist hicks. No doubt Democrats knew they had a winner right out of the gate with the junior U.S. senator from Illinois, even though he engaged in some queer and previously unseen strategies during his campaign that years ago would’ve got him sent to the back of the bus. Never before had any presidential candidate blatantly refused to release any of his personal information or any details about their past before an election. Conservatives recklessly believe releasing such information is a way to strengthen support for the candidate and for the party, it’s a way to introduce both candidates to the American people and doing so is the earmark of a clean election. Therefore it was a gutsy move for the young black senator nobody had ever heard of who was trying to win an election to the highest office in the land. Decades ago such a move might have been misconstrued as an indication the candidate must have something ugly to hide from his past. But in our enlightened times we’ve moved beyond such suspicion and enjoy knowing the government would never allow such a fraud. Yet by becoming the first presidential candidate in U.S. history to cast off this old antiquated tradition Obama established himself as a trendsetter, as a leader, as a man among men who could get things done in the 21st century. And his strategy worked. Never before had Americans elected a half-breed to the Oval Office, and in Obama’s case it was not once, but twice. If this doesn’t speak volumes about America’s diversity, tolerance and the death of widespread racism in this century nothing does. But these ignorant cornfed Republican clodhoppers continue to challenge President Obama, on his policy issues and on foreign affairs including the manner he’s used to deal with the ongoing Muslim crisis here at home. Every president experiences a few minor glitches during their tenure, how they respond exposes the man’s substance, their constitution and their belief in the American dream. In Obama’s case it was his sterling reputation and his unyielding commitment to the American people that proved his remarkable ability to bounce back even after a total abortion like Benghazi. Then there was that inconsequential border fray when President Obama, was busy arming Mexican drug cartels with thousands of fully automatic assault rifles later used to murder American and Mexican lawman along with slaughtering untold tens of thousands of Mexican nationals, mostly children. I was shocked at how fast Republicans jumped on this terrible human tragedy and immediately put a negative spin it in a disgraceful attempt to publicly shame our fine president. Again without cause nor a shred of evidence these dangerous white gun toting, racist conservatives lashed out repeatedly at the president showing their utter contempt for the office as well as for the man. I hate seeing these dangerous 2nd Amendment fanatics come riding in on their white horses all holier than thou and God worshiping looking for a good old fashion lynching. Everyone of these America-hating rednecks and ignorant southern hillbilly-boys at the least little thing will attack one of the cleanest and greatest presidents in the history of this great nation. Republicans are lying hypocrites who’ve work tirelessly to bring down our president but this tactic backfired on them proving President Obama is no sissy-la-la. The American people admire Obama’s courage and integrity. And now-a-days our eyes are wide open and we see through their bloodstained bed sheets of hate for the white trash they are. Does anyone really care that Obama used the IRS as his personal claw-hammer of vengance to stick it to dangerous Republicans and their pro-Israel friends who hate America? So what if he used the Justice Department to spy on the conservative filth at the Associated Press who’ve repeatedly berated the president in their trashy yellow propaganda rag. And whatever happened to that “40 acres and a mule” promise? We all know newly freed slaves after the Civil War got squat. But Obama finally did something to correct that historical injustice by having the Agriculture Department pay out billions in cash to the president’s minority friends who played the victim role and pulled the race card like a gun claiming they’d been victims of discrimination. Yeah who’s going to buy that? Someone should’ve told these so-called “victims” we have a black president now. Of course patriotic Republicans called it the Pigford scandal so shut up black people you’re 40 acres and a mule, that debts been paid. What amounted to a slight misunderstanding when a few New Black Panther guys stood chatting in front of their local Philadelphia polling place having a friendly conversation after having fulfilled their civic duty by casting their ballots as free men. There’s nothing more American than that my friends. None the less these feeble-minded, duck killing Republicans screamed bloody murder claiming a few black men were scaring and intimidating voters simply by being at their polling place on election day and being black! Do these retarded conservatives really want to move the country backwards to the beginning of the 19th century when the nation was disgraced globally by the evil of slavery, back when black Negroes were property and purchased on the open market like livestock? Who cares about a few people men standing in front of their polling place on election day? Had they been white no one would’ve considered their activity to be criminal. The fact is it took the racist eye of timid, paranoid armed “patriots” hiding behind the American flag to scandalize this non-incident and turn it into a racist hate crime of felony proportions. The myth about voter intimidation had been totally cooked up by drunken in-breeders living in the back woods who marry their daughters and consume moonshine for breakfast, lunch and dinner. That is an accurate portrayal of the American conservative and Republican. So who would ever give these disgraceful, lying, in-breeders the time of day let alone any credibility? So what if Obama derailed the Justice Department’s investigation and subsequent prosecution of more innocent black men? Anyone with a shred of integrity would’ve done the same thing and saved the taxpayers billions for a pointless investigation and prosecution. Standing up for what’s right is the earmark of a real president. The GOP must believe the American people are as ignorant as they are. Their consistent efforts to malign one of the most successful presidents in our country’s history, a president whose policies have led to new found prosperity for the American people. What right minded individual would ever want to return to the oppressive days of having some worthless white corporate mouthpiece serving as our president?  