Little House on the Prairie Remake Announces Cast, Begins Shooting in Three Weeks
Get out the handkerchiefs and bibles. Little House on the Prairie is coming back to television this Fall as part of the revamped NBC Prime time Lineup. The Universe Television Studios Company has approved the script and cast for a two-hour pilot and ten episodes. In a joint press conference, NBC CEO Steve Burk and Chairman Bob Greenblack have announced the kickoff for production of the remake with the blessings of Michael Landon’s Estate. “Receiving the endorsement of Mr. Landon’s estate was crucial in making the final decision to go ahead with production,” said Burk. “Being true to the original story is one of our main objectives.” NBC partners with B.L.U.F.F. Productions headed by Dr. Lonald Childs to create the series. Childs’ firm, a subsidiary of SMN Enterprises, will help accent family orientated entertainment with an emphasis on religion, sobriety, and anti-masturbation themes. The series will provide a number of actors with comeback opportunities, mainly, former embattled silver screen vet Mel Gibson. The ‘Braveheart’ star will be making his debut in a small screen production. “Mel has given us his word that his past is behind him,” explained Greenblack. “He signed an incentive-laden contract as a sign of goodwill.” Many believe Gibson’s move to television provides him the motive to redefine himself. “It’s certainly an attempt to once again endear himself to Americans,” said Greenblack. The adaptation of Laura Ingalls Wilder’s book series, ‘Little House” centers on a family living on the untamed 1870’s frontier in Walnut Grove, Minnesota. The essence of the story portrays the power of a strong family structure founded on moral and religious values as it endures the trials and tribulations of 19th century life on the Minnesota Prairie. While taking artistic liberties and introducing a gambit of new characters, the series will stay relatively faithful to the books and original series. Here is a partial cast listing. For Gibson, who has suffered from scandals emanating from rage-filled phone rants and police stop tirades to charges of antisemitism, the series is a breath of fresh air and a real chance for him to rebuild public favor as the gentleman patriarch of the Ingalls Family. Dogg will be making his TV debut as Doc Baker, the tough and wizened caretaker of the Walnut Grove citizenry. Also noteworthy is Justin Beiber in the role of Nellie Ingalls. “The Beeb” was a long shot to land the part, but hard work and determination won out as he impressed the casting director and staff with his portrayal of the nasty Nellie Oleson. Other notables include Miley Cyrus in the challenging role of Laura, ex-porn star Ginger Lynn Allen as Caroline, and Helena Bohnam Carter as Mrs. Oleson, the stuck-up proprietor of the Walnut Grove Mercantile Exchange. Theme music from the original series will be used for the opening credits. Snoop Dogg has been licensed to assist with the soundtrack producing musical backdrops for action footage. Danger Mouse and Daniele Luppi will contribute catchy indie style original music for the series in their first collaboration since the “Rome” Soundtrack. Norah Jones and Amy Grant are also tagged for individual contributions. The series will begin shooting in February.  