Protesters Burn Down Dunkin’ Donuts In Response To Police Brutality
Protestors in New York City burned down a Dunkin' Donuts store last night in retaliation for the death of Eric Garner and other victims of police brutality. According to local reports, several youths used Molotov cocktails to set fire to a branch of the venerable donut and coffee chain in Manhattan, believing its destruction would "punish" the police force. No one was injured in the blaze and four arrests were made. "We needed to hit the police where it hurts," explains Damon Jackson, one of the perpetrators. "Donuts are the fuel that feeds the NYPD's machine of oppression. "We tried the court system, and they didn't listen. We tried marching in the streets, and they didn't listen. u0018 Then we set fire to their donut supply. You better believe they're listening now." Protests have occurred around the country in recent weeks over several instances of police killing unarmed black men. In the latest case, a New York grand jury refused to indict a police officer in the choking death of Garner, an unarmed asthmatic black man accused of illegally selling untaxed cigarettes. Garner's choking is just one in a long line of similar incidences in which black men have been killed by while police officers, who subsequently go unpunished. In a statement published on its official Tumblr this morning, the police responded to the burning. "The NYPD strongly condemns this heartless act of destruction," the organization wrote. "Donuts are a delicious snack enjoyed by millions around the world. Destroying a supply of these tasty treats isn't just an ordinary crime. It's a crime against humanity." Mainstream protest organizers have condemned the Dunkin' Donuts fire as an unnecessary act of violence. However, they are planning a non-violent alternative to get these yummy pastries out of the hands of the police. "It's well known that most people who work in commercial donut bakeries are low-income and minorities,"says civil rights activist Al Sharpton. "We're encouraging these people to go on strike, cutting off the supply of donuts at the source."