Obama Attends Gwyneth Paltrow’s Halloween Party As Ronald Reagan
President Barack Obama stunned the world last night by wearing former President Ronald Reagan for a Halloween costume. According to local reports, his costume included ‘‘white face,’’ the process of applying makeup to make dark skin appear Caucasian.  This is Obama’s sixth consecutive year attending the annual Hollywood Halloween Party, held at Gwyneth Paltrow's mansion in Los Angeles. Obama reportedly sat six hours in a makeup chair to apply what makeup artist Jillian Swagger called “reversed white face.” Swagger did makeup for the film Snow White and the Huntsman and did a fantastic job, according to Obama’s camp. Wig master Mike Higgy said, “We went with a Reagan number three wig. The Reagan number six was close but wig three got Michelle’s approval. She has good taste in wigs.” The ‘‘white face’’ was an edgy choice but to the Obama’s Halloween is a family event. They arrived together and participated in the red carpet event before entering the Hancock Park home. First Lady Michelle Obama wore a large carrot suit with daughters Malia and Natasha wearing round onion and apple costumes. Waiter and part time comedian Kenny Bania noted that “Their family photo looked pretty funny. Someone should have advised Michelle not to stand between her daughters.” Larry David, star of the hit HBO show Curb Your Enthusiasm, attended the party briefly and spoke to correspondent  Blake Charles. Before a question could be asked, David said, “Traffic. La Brea to Highland? Forget it. Wilshire? Get out of here. You can’t drive anywhere. Why do people even bother?” President Obama is famous for causing severe traffic jams when traveling with his security and advisers. “Every time he comes to LA, the traffic is a mess,” David said. “Richard Lewis told me the other day he sat two hours to go one block. He’s the president, he has a helicopter. But then where do you park the helicopter? What do you tip the valet for a helicopter?” David then turned his observations to Obama’s family. “And he brought kids? Why would you bring kids to an adult party? I don’t get it,” David said. “I could see if the party had started at 4 p.m. because then you know it’s a kid party. Right after school. Any party that starts after 8 p.m. is an adult party. Everyone knows that.” Shortly after their conversation, David become involved in some sort of altercation and was asked to leave. While leaving he shouted, “But the traffic!”