Obama-Backed Bill To Give Musicians $5000 Grants
According to policy expert, Richard Hunter, “Those applying for the grants will mainly have to be in good standing with the IRS and be able to show proof of health insurance. Other than that, any artist that is not signed to a major recording label would be eligible to apply for the grant if the bill is passed into law.” Opponents of the bill, which include the majority of Republican senators and house members, are calling the bill “ill-timed” and “irresponsible”. Senator Ted Cruz (R-TX) said, “Giving out almost nine billion dollars and expecting the taxpayers to fund the bill is not a prudent move to make in such a shaky economy. Once again, our president is trying to be the ‘good guy’ and play Santa Claus with the taxpayers’ hard-earned money.” Other opponents within the music industry say the bill is not restrictive enough and is rife with problems. “Simply put, bands that don’t need the money could apply and receive the grant because only fifteen labels are considered ‘major labels’ in the current legislation,” stated writer Michael Engstrom of All Music Magazine. Senator Jon Tester (D-MT), a former music teacher, is one of the proponents of the “grants for musicians” bill. “We’ve given the arts a back seat in the United States for far too long,” said Sen. Tester. “It’s high time we make the arts a priority in this country and giving artists financial help in getting their music careers started is a great way to do that.” Jerry Williams, an aspiring DJ in San Francisco, says the $2000 grant will be a godsend to him. “I’ve needed the money to be able to buy a Serato rig for while,” explained Williams. “I can barely make ends meet now that I have to dedicate a chunk of my day job’s income to health care. I’m all for this grant program because I’d have enough left over to buy my way on to a few live line-ups. I know other producers and DJs out there could really benefit from this free money too.” It is expected this bill will be brought to a Senate vote in early 2015.