Renee Zellweger Breaks Silence; Drastic New Look Result Of Gluten-Free Diet
Apparently exhausted from the non-stop hounding by paparazzi, Zellweger has finally broken her vow of silence about her fresh new face in a prepared statement issued by her publicist, Rachel Simmons: “While I find the attention given to my appearance to be ridiculous, I decided it was time to explain the question you all have. No, I did not have plastic surgery. As a forty-five year old woman, I decided it was time to make some lifestyle changes over the past year. One of the biggest changes I made was adopting a strict, gluten-free diet. The diet not only has given me more energy, but when combined with CrossFit training for an upcoming role, caused me to lose some weight. So, no, I didn’t have surgery, my new look is all natural.”\n David Henderson, author of the upcoming book “I Came In Like A Wrecking Ball: The True Story Of The False Miley Cyrus”, is an expert on celebrity doppelgängers and is not convinced we are seeing the same Renee Zellweger. “The fact that ‘Ms. Zellweger’ tried to blow off the surgery speculation and then issued such a bogus statement raises the red flag for me,” explained Henderson. “I’ve seen this thing time and again, but this swindle is the most blatant. It’s like they didn’t even bother to find someone who even remotely resembled Ms. Zellweger and said ‘Oh, just a blonde female that is roughly the same height and weight? That’ll do.'” Henderson, 74, is one of the leading experts on celebrity death hoaxes and the even more strange “celebrity doppelgänger syndrome”. He cut his teeth with some ground breaking research into the alleged replacement of Beatles founding member, Paul McCartney, after an unfortunate 1966 automobile accident. Henderson has also investigated the reported replacement of Amanda Bynes, Macauley Culkin, Michael Jackson and most recently, Miley Cyrus. “Only time will tell,” added Henderson. “Usually they start acting completely the opposite of the celebrity they are replacing. I don’t believe that a gluten-free diet had anything to do with it. They’ve realized they did a shoddy job on the Zellweger clone and are now scrambling to cover their tracks.”