“Breaking Bad Was based on a true story…only backwards” – Vince Gilligan
Breaking Bad creator Vince Gilligan stated today that the hit TV show was in reality his brother’s story of meth-maker to science slinger. The once meth lord Wallace ‘Heisenberg’ Gilligan made a gradual decline out of the meth business while taking classes at New Mexico University for his teachers certificate. He ran into one of his ex-meth makers Jessica Pacman, and she was persuaded to leave the game by Wallace. They needed to take out the other drug lords so that he could easily slip into a basic teaching life. Their previous employer, a white supremists and deep fried turnip fast food owner Frank Gussle was the first to go. Gilligan explains that the way his brother killed Gussle was too gruesome and fantastical for television so they dumbed it down a lot, “you know, for the modern thinking pubic” When asked about all of the Mexican drug dealers and the role they played, Gilligan said this. “There actually were no Mexicans. You need a enemy and Mexico is pretty easy for Americans to accept as the bad guys, when in actuality it’s a bunch of middle aged white men.”Along the way his bitchy wife and disabled son wanted him back in their lives, mostly because he was super rich with meth money, and together they settled in a nice house with a pool. “Holly was made up. I mean, look at his first kid, why would he have another?But then something terrible happened… Wallace was diagnosed with cancer. It was a blow to the whole family. Wallace didn’t care though, he was so loaded with meth money that all the treatment was paid for right away. That’s when he was shot in the chest… By a radiation machine, and his cancer was gone.” Said Gilligan. Apparently however Wallace finally became that high-school chemistry teacher he always wanted to be. “Now he teaches students basic shitty science. Also a guy named Mike was there the whole time being a badass. God we loved that guy.” His brother reminisced. Reporting from the field,Blair Moro