AT&T Execs Approve New Ad Campaign: Shhh, It Uses Reverse Psychology
Some observers have been seeing peculiar signs and bumper stickers littered throughout large and small towns in America lately.  This particular picture that was captured has 3 large bumper stickers on the truck that say “AT&T Service Sucks.”  This beat up truck was parked outside of a local Dallas Gentleman’s Club and quickly had a crowd gather around it.  Some folks agreed with the sign and were passionate about how they hate AT&T.  A few others took the other point of view and shouted about how AT&T is the best company in the world.  As we took in this strange scene developing out in the middle of the street, our cameraman swore he saw AT&T CEO Randall Stephenson walk past the crowd with his head down and wearing a large grey trench coat.  Sure enough.  We were able to finally catch up with Mr. Stephenson after chasing him for about 8 blocks.  He was yelling stuff at us like, “Burn in hell, Satan” and “You can never prove anything!  Don’t you know who I am?”  He did throw quite a few $1 bills up in the air as he ran to distract us.  It worked.  But we eventually caught up to him, $17 richer than we were before the chase. “We just wanted to talk to you about your business,” we assured him.  He tried to run again so we tackled him and he was ok when we told him AT&T business and nothing else.  “Shit, you guys scared me,” panted Stephenson.  “I thought you saw something you shouldn’t have.  You didn’t see anything did you?”  We told him we did not even though we did see stuff.  Raunchy and perverted stuff.  We told him we just wanted to know what the bumper stickers were all about. “Oh, that’s easy,” said the AT&T President as he calmed down.  “Did you see all those people talking?  That’s called marketing, dumbass.  We’ve paid some random people to put things in their businesses, on their cars, and elsewhere to get people talking about AT&T.  It’s working and it was my fucking idea.  That’s why I’m the CEO and you’re not.  It uses a concept that is, I’m sure, completely foreign to you called reverse psychology.  People talk shit about us but they are talking about us.  Before they know it, we enter their minds for good and we never leave.  We’re like a massive wireless tapeworm in your brain.  We eat your brain up and then it’s just all tapeworm in there.  It’s much more complicated than that but I’m dumbing it down for you with the slim chance you may understand it in those terms.  Listen, I’ve gotta run.  Don’t ever fucking chase me like that again or I will ruin you.” We checked in with AT&T’s marketing gurus and they claim to know nothing about this campaign.  They remarked that this must have been one of those “executive decisions.”  It’s too early to tell whether or not this campaign is having a positive impact on gaining new customers or satisfying current customers.  The one thing we know for sure is that it has gotten people talking about AT&T.  And by talking, we don’t just mean on the internet.  Oh, and we’re pretty sure we hate AT&T too.