Screenwriter Pitching Series About New Yorker Finding His Way in L.A.
A modestly successful Hollywood screenwriter has reportedly written a pilot for a "groundbreaking" series which concerns a young 20-something creative type from New York moving to L.A. and struggling to adapt to his new surroundings. Josh Shore - a staff writer on ABC's hit sitcom Modern Family - says he'll be pitching the half-hour dramedy to premium cable networks and AMC. Leaving aside shows like Californication, Entourage, Curb Your Enthusiasm, Ellen and Joey and films such as Swingers, The Karate Kid, and Annie Hall - Hollywood has long had a dearth of principal characters who grew up in New York City and made the move to L.A to pursue a career opportunities related to the entertainment industry. Shore himself grew up in Manhatten, attended Horace Mann and Yale School of Drama and moved to L.A. after graduation to take a job as a P.A. to the showrunner on the short-lived Anchorwoman. He says the show will only be "loosely" based on his own experiences. "We could make jokes about how hard it is to find good bagels and how awful the pizza is." "I was just sitting in my car one day caught in traffic along Wilshire . I thought to myself - this would never happen in New York. I began reminiscing about all the good days in the city... I had the pilot outline dictated to my iPhone by the time I got home. " The working title is "Greg" - after the series' main character- who is a Yankees-loving male interior decorator working for a soulless housing developer.  A former collegue invites him to move to L.A. to join her new celebrity-serving interior design start-up. Greg breaks up with his girlfriend (sic) and moves to California where - surprise - sparks fly between himself and  his new boss. That is until Greg's ex visits mid way though the first season... Shore explains that although the comedy is mostly character driven, the cultural contrast between NYC and L.A. will always be in the background: "The potential is endless. We could make jokes about how hard it is to find good bagels and how awful the pizza is. And about seasons. You know? How in L.A. we only have one of them." He is also excited about the potential for celebrity stunt casting the show's premise provides: "It's great. We could have celebrities playing themselves in their own houses. Its kinda like CRIBS meets Larry Sanders." Industry sources say the pilot has a good chance of being shot, and if picked up could be on the schedule in fall of 2013. Meanwhile the 95% of the world's population that lives outside of the United States and the  87% of America's population that lives outside of the NYC and L.A. metro areas are awaiting the series with baited breath.  