Crayola Named Fifty Shades of Grey Official Sponsor
Crayola®, best known for its world-famous line of children’s crayons, has entered into a sponsorship agreement with producers of the Fifty Shades of Grey movie, based on the 2011 erotic novel by British author E. L. James, according to advertising insiders. Conservative groups and advocates for children are understandably up in arms over the association between a beloved childhood toy brand, and a sexually themed Hollywood film depicting elements of bondage, discipline, dominance and submission (BDSM).  Two new crayon colors, “Christian Grey” and “Steele Grey” – named after the best-selling novel’s central characters – will be included in the newest boxed set of crayons to be released on Valentine’s Day, coinciding with the film’s premiere. An adult coloring book – based on the novel and specifically aimed at adults – will be part of a gift package given to VIPs attending the film’s official premiere. The ‘swag bag’ will also include several adult-themed toys and a signed, first edition of the novel. Television and web advertising are also included in the partnership agreement. Although conservative groups have asked for the recall of the new crayon colors and an outright ban on the adult coloring book, few protesting individuals are eager to admit that they have read the novel themselves, fearing negative reactions from employers and colleagues. “Our hands are tied”, said National Children’s Foundation President Louise Tedrow. “We encourage children to read and to explore their creativity, but of course we suggest age-appropriate, approved material and family themes. It is misguided to say the least, for this perverse adult work to be so closely associated with children innocently rubbing their crayons into a book.” Many feel that Crayola® has “gone outside the lines” for the sake of profit, but advertising experts see the tie-in as a bold advance in crossover targeted marketing. “Thousands, perhaps millions more people have become aware of the upcoming film as a result of this collaboration,” says media analyst Vance Packard. “I think that’s the point, and the fact that we’re discussing it now proves the effectiveness of the campaign.” Fifty Shades of Grey, the first novel in the E. L. James trilogy, has sold more than 100 million copies worldwide, with profits from the film expected to shatter box office records. Branded merchandise will also generate millions of dollars, although one lawsuit has already been filed against a Fifty Shades branded product – a lubricant. “No one’s going to sue over a crayon,” said Packard. “This deal was a smart move for everyone involved.”