Parents Try To Explain To Their Stupid Kid That He Can’t Be A Surveillance Drone When He Grows Up
Marie Drummond and her husband Michael love their only child.  They don’t plan on having more.  Riley, their 6 year old son, has been a precocious little one since he left mother’s womb. The family conversation they had today is not an unusual occurrence.  Marie and Michael are rapidly getting tired. Riley:  I’ve decided what I want to be when I grow up.  A surveillance drone! Parents:  That’s great, honey.  But a surveillance drone is not a person so you cannot be a drone.  Maybe you could build surveillance drones. Riley:  I don’t want to build one.  I want to be one.  You told me I could be anything I want if I work hard enough to make it happen. Parents:  You can, Riley, you can.  It’s just that a drone is kind of like an airplane.  People can’t turn into airplanes because they are made of metal and engines.  People don’t have those things. Riley:  But what about Transformers?  And Batman and Spiderman?  They put on suits and become something no one thought they could be.  Can’t I do that?  I know I can do something no one thought was possible. Parents:  Sweetie, those are all cartoons and make believe.  There is no real Batman or Spiderman.  You really seem to like dreaming up things, though, so maybe you could be a scientist and help other people that way. Riley:  I don’t want to be a scientist.  I’m going to be a surveillance drone.  Did you think the internet was possible when you were little?  Did you ever think that your wireless phone could tell you when it is time for you to go to the bathroom?  It is possible and I’m going to do it.  You’ll see. Parents:  Ok, honey.  We believe you.  You can do it.  You will do it!  We’ll love you if you’re a surveillance drone or a garbage man.  As long as you’re happy, we support you. Riley stormed off in disgust after his parents gave up and just patronized him, like they usually do.  Riley went up to his room and started burning holes in the carpet with a lighter he found on the street.  All in the name of experimentation and inventing.  Godspeed achieving your dream, Riley.  Stupid kid.