YouTube To Deactivate Accounts That Contain ‘Spoilers’
Beginning April 2015, YouTube will deactivate users’ accounts containing film spoilers in their comments, even if a “spoiler alert” warning is posted.  Moviemakers, copyright holders and producers claim that spoilers negatively affect box office revenue by keeping audiences away from movie theaters. “Besides being irritating,” says YouTube analyst Heath Peterson, “spoilers affect thousands of people’s opinions about a film.  YouTube doesn’t want to be a part of that, so if the account holder violates the new rule, that account’s getting deleted, as it should be.” YouTube already notifies users if posted content is owned by a third-party with the warning: “Your Video Contains Copyrighted Material.”  Content may be blocked worldwide or removed. The upcoming rule however, goes a step further by punishing users who merely write a comment about a copyrighted work that reveals a story’s key elements or a movie’s ending. “Any part of a story is a protected work of the author, publisher or creator,” says intellectual property attorney Maxine Bleedom.  Revealing the end of someone’s story is revealing the end of somebody else’s creative work, and YouTube as content provider is within their rights to do what they want, in this case deleting a user’s account. It’s controversial because it creates arguments over free speech and artistic expression, but if it’s in their TOS and you agree to it, it’s legally binding.” Of course, this won’t stop those who “spoil” from creating other accounts and doing the same thing, but it does show increased cooperation between social media sites and copyright holders. Even with more options available to view media, “filling the seats” in movie theaters still makes up the lion’s share of income for moviemakers and independent producers.  In 2012, nearly $11 billion was spent at US theaters alone. Analyst Peterson backs the new YouTube rule in part because of a 1999 incident that occurred when seeing M. Night Shyamalan’s The Sixth Sense with a friend. “So my friend turns to me at the beginning – right when we first see Bruce Willis – and he says, ‘Oh, God, you know what?  I get this. He’s already dead, I figured it out already.’ I wanted to punch him in the face!  He spoiled the whole movie for me.” Whether this new rule will be seen as a ‘punch in the face’ by the estimated 1 billion monthly YouTube users is yet to be seen. But if you’ve ever written a spoiler yourself, you’ve got less than a month to scrub that comment from YouTube, or else. 