Did Sony score $20M from Mexico for new Bond film?
Mexico has been dealing with an image problem after reports of drug-related violence in the nation's capital, but the country is reportedly trying to change its image by dictating how it's portrayed in the upcoming James Bond film. Hacked Sony emails indicate the studio agreed to the changes in exchange for incentives worth up to $20 million, reports CBS News correspondent Vladimir Duthiers.The first images released from the upcoming movie "Spectre" show breathtaking scenes shot atop snowy Austrian mountains, but halfway across the world in sunny Mexico, the film's latest twist is unfolding. "Movies are very influential. If the next James Bond film grosses $1 billion, that's a lot of people who will see a movie and could be influenced by the portrayal of particular towns, particular governments," Hollywood Reporter executive editor Matt Belloni said.Sony could use the cash. "Spectre," the 24th installment of the 007 franchise, is on track to become the most expensive Bond film yet.  Its rumored budget -- a sky-high $300 million dollars. That's roughly $100 million more than the previous Bond film, "Skyfall."In exchange for the $20 million, Mexico wanted specific changes to the script that would make the country look better after years of violence and scandal -- atrocities like mass killings attributed to the government, as well as charges of corruption and a deadly drug war.Among the requests reported by taxanalysts.com, Mexico asked the filmmakers to showcase "modern Mexico city buildings." It also wanted the villain character to not be Mexican, but the actress playing Bond Girl "Estrella" should be a known Mexican actress.Just last week, Mexican actress Stephanie Sigman was hired for the role. The hacked emails appear to indicate that Sony agreed to all of Mexico's requests. One email quotes then-Sony chief Amy Pascal as saying: "We should insist they add whatever travelogue footage we need in Mexico to get the extra money."  "I think this is embarrassing for Sony," Belloni said. "Movie studios make concessions to different countries and even different states in order to get tax incentives all the time. What is interesting here are the creative demands that the country was supposedly making on the studio and their willingness to play ball there."Sony declined to comment on whether concessions were made. Some reports say the Mexico City scenes will only account for four minutes of the final film.