Harrison Ford plane crash: Doctor describes pulling star from wreckage
The doctor who came to Harrison Ford's aid immediately after seeing his plane crash-land on a Los Angeles golf course says he was stunned to discover the actor at the controls. Spinal surgeon Dr. Sanjay Kahurana was golfing Thursday next to Santa Monica Airport when he saw the plane "drop like a rock" about 50 yards in front of him.25PhotosHarrison FordMore than just an actorHe ran to the plane and found the pilot stunned and complaining of pain below his waist and with a deep gash in his scalp. Kahurana and other golfers pulled him from the wreckage, and the doctor assessed his condition.It was at that point that Kahurana realized who he was treating. The doctor also told TV stations in Los Angeles that aside from worrying about Ford's injuries from the impact, he saw fuel leaking out of the World War II-era plane. He and other golfers pulled Ford from the wreckage. Others threw dirt on the fuel so it wouldn't catch fire. A source close to Ford's family told CBS News the actor suffered broken bones and required surgery.Late Friday, CBS News learned actor Harrison Ford broke an ankle and may have fractured his pelvis when he crash-landed the plane. His publicist, Ina Treciokas, said in a statement that Ford was "banged up and is in the hospital receiving medical care." "The injuries sustained are not life threatening, and he is expected to make a full recovery," Treciokas added. Ford's son, Ben Ford, also took to Twitter a few hours after the crash updating fans and well-wishers: At the hospital. Dad is ok. Battered, but ok! He is every bit the man you would think he is. He is an incredibly strong man.— Chef Ben Ford (@ChefBenFord) March 6, 2015Thank you all for your thoughts and good vibes for my dad.— Chef Ben Ford (@ChefBenFord) March 6, 2015 Ford, 72, took off Thursday on a solo flight and quickly reported engine trouble. The National Transportation Safety Board is investigating. An airplane sits on the ground after crash landing at Penmar Golf Course in Venice, California, March 5, 