Steve Scalise still mending fences
Steve Scalise is on a non-apology apology tour. Seven weeks after coming under fire for giving a 2002 speech to a group associated with white supremacists, the House’s No. 3 Republican is meeting with key members of the Congressional Black Caucus, conferring with civil rights leaders and trying to forge relationship with reporters — though it’s unclear if that will be enough to fix what could have been potentially career-ending damage. Story Continued Below One of the people he’s met with, CBC Chairman G.K. Butterfield of North Carolina, expressed frustration that the Louisiana Republican hasn’t committed to attending next month’s 50th anniversary of the civil rights marches in Selma, Alabama. Scalise allies insist he is not mounting a formal mea culpa. He expressed regret after the scandal initially broke in late December, but now allies say the House majority whip is just working to build new bonds on Capitol Hill and granting meetings with those who ask. The people he’s sat down with include black lawmakers who were deeply offended by the revelation that as a state legislator he had given the speech to a conference associated with former Ku Klux Klan leader David Duke. That was followed by last month’s news that in 1996 Scalise had also opposed a state legislative resolution apologizing for slavery. Butterfield, a Democratic House member from North Carolina, said last weekthat Scalise is “going to have to determine how to repair the damage that’s been done.” “He has the ability to do it, but the question is does he have the will?” Butterfield said. “I don’t believe in manifestos. We don’t give deadlines. He’s a Republican leader, he’s a leader of the Republican caucus, not of the Democratic conference, and if they want to keep someone in their leadership that has this controversy swirling around, that is their prerogative.” Butterfield added that he would be closely watching Scalise’s decision on Selma, saying the Republican was “equivocal” when invited. Marc Morial, the president the National Urban League, wouldn’t even rule out calling for Scalise’s resignation after meeting with the lawmaker last week, despite characterizing the confab as a “good meeting characterized by respectful dialogue.” “I have been asked whether I would join calls for Rep. Scalise’s resignation, and following today’s meeting, I remain undecided,” Morial said in a statement. “I am, however, hopeful that moving forward Rep. Scalise will demonstrate that he is serious about acting in good faith to build relationships.” Scalise’s office has not commented on the outreach effort and did not respond to a question about whether he will go to Selma. One of his D.C. roommates, Rep. John Shimkus, said he doesn’t think the Republican conference has suffered lasting harm from the revelations. The Illinois Republican said that during the several years they have lived together, he hasn’t seen any sign of Scalise being racist. “There has never been any impropriety, so what Steve has to do, Steve will have to decide,” Shimkus said. “I went to Selma. I just think it’s a good thing to do regardless. It’s probably earlier rather than later might have been good.” So far, Scalise’s public response to the crisis has been a strategy out of public relations 101 — going local. He expressed his initial contrition in December to Louisiana television stations and the New Orleans Times-Picayune but then stopped talking about the controversy in front of the newsmedia. He has avoided sit-down interviews with national reporters and tried to refocus attention on House Republicans’ efforts to take a lead role on the Department Homeland Security funding fight. But he’s also followed a quiet course in D.C., including trying to build relationships with Capitol Hill reporters by holding off-the-record sitdowns. Earlier this month, he met with Butterfield and two other CBC members, Reps. Karen Bass (D-Calif.) and André Carson (D-Ind.). The trio had a series of requests for Scalise, including that he go to Selma and line up Republican sponsors to a Voting Rights Act amendment that would reverse portions of a 2013 Supreme Court decision.