Kathy Griffin Leaves 'Fashion Police' After 7 Episodes
The Fashion Police exodus continues. After Kelly Osbourne exited the show at the end of February, freshman host Kathy Griffin is quitting as well, after only seven episodes. The acerbic comedian took to Instagram to post a lengthy message announcing her departure, writing,  " My brand of humor, while unrepentant and unafraid, is all about CONTEXT. There is plenty to make fun of in pop culture without bringing people's bodies into it… After 7 episodes of Fashion Police, I discovered that my style does not fit with the creative direction of the show & now it's time to move on. " NEWS: Kelly Osbourne Officially Quits 'Fashion Police' After Zendaya Comments  Griffin, who was brought on to the fashion commentary show to fill the host spot on the panel once occupied by late-comedian Joan Rivers, recently addressed the controversy surround Giuliana Rancic's off-color comments about Zendaya Coleman's dreadlocks, which many found to be racially insensitive. After the Oscars, Rancic said that Zendaya's dreadlocks made her look like she  "smells like patchouli oil... or weed. " It didn't take long for people to jump on Rancic's comments. Rancic ended up apologizing for the remarks.  When asked if people would have been less upset if Griffin had made the joke, Griffin told the Chicago Sun-Times' Splash magazine,  "Probably not… But I wouldn't have said the joke in the first place. Some dude wrote it for her. " VIDEO: Kathy Griffin on Giuliana Rancic 'Fashion Police' Controversy: 'I Wouldn't Have Said' the Zendaya Joke  Griffin also told Splash,  "My approach is ALWAYS to go for the laugh, be as inappropriate as possible, but also change with the times… My goal would be to bring the comedic sensibility of any show I enter or take over into a more modern way of thinking … and laughing. The show wanted to do a running segment called 'Whore Score.' Um, no thanks. I think we can do better. " According to her Instagram post, it appears that Griffin found herself at odds with people whose humor she didn't appreciate or reciprocate.  "I'm no saint - I'm a feminist and a Gurrrrl who loves an offensive joke of well-timed barb and you will find plenty in my repertoire, " Griffin writes.  "But I do not want to used my comedy to contribute to a culture of unattainable perfectionism and intolerance towards difference. I want to help women, gay kids, people of color and anyone who feels underrepresented to have a voice and a LAUGH! " NEWS: Zendaya Slams 'Fashion Police' Host's 'Ignorant Slurs' About Her Oscars Hairstyle  Although Griffin made sure to end her post on a conciliatory note, adding,  "I wish E! and the E! team only the best and I do hope to continue to make you all laugh performing live or on television where I can be smart, irreverent, unrepentant and unafraid in an observational way that is candid, honest and justified. Thank you to my fans for taking this ride with me. See you at the gay bars. " After Griffin's annoucement was posted, E! responded with a statement on her departure.  "We can confirm that Kathy Griffin is leaving E!'s Fashion Police.  We wish her all the best and are grateful for her time on the show, as well as the many laughs that she gave us all. Fashion Police will return, as scheduled, on Monday, March 30 at 9pm with our talented Co-Hosts Giuliana Rancic and Brad Goreski and Executive Producer Melissa Rivers. No further information is available at this time. " For more from Griffin on her reaction to the Giuliana Rancic controversy, check out the video below.