Hostage death exposes problems in U.S. response
The death of aid worker Kayla Mueller is fueling charges that bureaucratic infighting and poor communication among U.S. government agencies have hampered efforts to save U.S. hostages held by ISIL or other militant groups. Some family members of hostages say the government’s system for dealing with hostage negotiations lacks coordination and leaves desperate families in the dark. At the White House, the Obama administration faced new questions Wednesday about whether it did all it could to save Mueller, a 26-year-old peace activist from Arizona. Story Continued Below On Capitol Hill, Rep. Duncan Hunter (R-Calif.), who has pressed the White House to streamline the handling of international hostage crises, told POLITICO he will soon introduce legislation that would shift leadership from the FBI to a governmentwide coordinator. The coordinator, he said, might put the Defense Department or the Central Intelligence Agency in charge of responding to a hostage-taking that takes place in a conflict zone overseas. With their larger footprints abroad, those agencies stand a better chance of avoiding the bureaucratic tangles and inertia that have plagued the U.S. government’s response to the plight of captured Americans, the congressman argues. “The administration has to have a coherent policy that uses the people who have the best chance of getting American and allied hostages home alive,” said Hunter. “That’s not the FBI, unless the hostages are in the Capitol building or somewhere else in the United States.” Hunter contends that the FBI is ill-suited to investigating and resolving hostage situations that take place in chaotic places like Syria, Libya or Yemen. “If the FBI wants to close down some of the stuff they’re doing here in the U.S. and move 2,000 agents to each of these hot spots, I guess that could work out — in the next 20 years or so,” the congressman said sarcastically. “What we’re talking about is actually having a shot at hostage recovery and the only guys who have a shot at it are the ones running networks tracking down terrorists and [their] organizations,” such as the military or the CIA, Hunter added. “What you don’t want are people who are not out there talking to them every day, paying people off and getting information.” Families who’ve pressed or are still pressing for the release of loved ones overseas seem to disagree about whether there’s a major problem with U.S. hostage recovery efforts or the FBI’s role. The mother of James Foley — an American journalist held hostage in Syria for more than a year and a half before being beheaded by ISIL in August — said Wednesday she doesn’t fault the FBI in particular but does favor a strong governmentwide coordinator to handle hostage cases. “I think the FBI is good at getting information. I think the problem is they didn’t know what to do with it,” Diane Foley said in an interview. “Everybody’s hands seemed to be tied, and nobody was accountable to get them home. … It was really bungled big time.” Mueller’s family expressed praise for the FBI in a statement released Tuesday. “We would like to thank the FBI agents that have been working with … the family. They have been amazing,” said Lori Lyon, one of Kayla Mueller’s aunts. By contrast, the parents of freelance journalist Austin Tice — still missing after being captured in Syria in 2012 — complain of disarray in the response of government agencies, including the FBI. “Amongst the agencies, the FBI, the intelligence community, the State Department and some elements of the White House, information sharing is very poor,” Tice’s father, Mark, said last week at the National Press Club. “I’m not telling you secrets because each of those agencies have told us the same thing. That’s something that needs to be fixed. … You need to [have] clear driving lanes. Who’s responsible for what. Who’s in charge. Who’s accountable. It’s not there yet.” Tice’s parents have called for the same type of post Hunter’s legislation would establish — a permanent, designated office in the government to coordinate response to hostage-taking overseas. “It’s appalling to us that no such entity currently exists,” Tice’s mother, Debra, said. “There is no agency, no person solely committed to the singular objective of the safe return of the hostage. That has to change.” The Tices have also complained that the FBI reluctantly shares information with families, citing classified information concerns. However, families of U.S. military prisoners whose cases are handled by the Pentagon have received detailed intelligence briefings, a Hunter aide said. Last fall, after complaints from hostages’ families about their dealings with the government, the Obama administration launched a “comprehensive review” of how such cases are addressed. However, there are questions about the depth of that review. A letter the Pentagon sent in November seems to pre-suppose that the FBI will retain its key position in hostage cases. “This review will seek to integrate innovation and non-traditional solutions to result in recommended actions to improve interagency coordination and strengthen the whole-of-government approach led by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the State Department,” Undersecretary of Defense Christine Wormuth wrote to Hunter. At the White House, President Obama said that a U.S. military raid he ordered in July was aimed at rescuing Mueller, in addition to others being held captive in Syria. Press secretary Josh Earnest said the president did not dawdle in green-lighting the rescue mission, as some reports suggested. No prisoners were found by the U.S. commandos who stormed the site. “I can confirm for you there was no delay in the president’s decision to order this military raid as soon as he and his military advisers and his national security team had confidence, based on a high degree of confidence, where exactly she was,” Earnest said. “And that is why the president can say unequivocally that he and his administration and this government did everything that we could to try to secure the safe return of Kayla Mueller.” The White House and other administration officials did not respond to questions about what actions they took in Mueller’s case between the July raid and the family’s receipt of an email over the weekend with photographic proof that Mueller was dead. ISIL has claimed she was killed in a Jordanian air raid, but Earnest said he doubts that is true. The drive to shift overseas hostage cases away from the FBI and toward the military dovetails with a recurring GOP critique of the Obama administration: that it treats the battle against terrorist groups too much like a traditional law enforcement operation rather than a military campaign. A White House spokesman said he would have no comment on Hunter’s legislation until it is officially introduced. However, a U.S. official defended the FBI’s role in the process and called the congressman’s proposal misguided. “I don’t know where the congressman is going because it doesn’t make any sense,” said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity. “To say the FBI ought to be taken away because [they’re] nice or whatever doesn’t make any sense because it’s not [the FBI’s]. … It’s an interagency effort where it’s all hands on deck.” The official said the FBI brings a “skill set” in dealing with families, handling ransom demands, conducting interviews and collecting evidence, but works closely with the military in conflict zones. A former FBI official said the July raid to try to rescue Mueller and other hostages confirms that the FBI’s role doesn’t inhibit assertive action to recover hostages. “What’s the problem? The FBI didn’t stand in the way of multiple attempts to rescue American hostages,” former FBI Assistant Director for International Operations Tom Fuentes said. “The fact that [Mueller] got killed or wasn’t rescued had nothing to do with whether the military or any one agency had the lead. If the intelligence is there, the president is going be the one that has to authorize the mission because it is so risky and requires so much coordination.” Some officials suggested that the challenge in recovering hostages held in Syria isn’t a problem of interagency cooperation or communication. They say it centers on very limited intelligence about where prisoners are being held and by whom. “It is a tremendously challenging collection environment for all of our intelligence agencies because we’re not present on the ground there [in Syria] in the traditional way,” National Counterterrorism Center Director Nicholas Rasmussen said Wednesday at a House Homeland Security Committee hearing on the so-called foreign fighter threat. “We don’t have the footprint on the ground that we would have in many places around the world with a diplomatic, military and intelligence presence. And so, we’re forced to be more creative, more innovative, more entrepreneurial in trying to close that gap.” “I would not argue, though, that we have closed the gap on where we need to be in terms of our understanding with granularity what’s going on on the ground in Syria,” Rasmussen added. Still, some officials who’ve handled hostage cases say Hunter’s proposal for a dedicated leader of hostage recovery efforts outside the FBI has merit. “It’s probably not a bad idea,” said former CIA officer Bob Baer. “The problem with leaving the FBI in charge is they are looking for an indictment and that isn’t really tied to your first interest. We don’t need to worry about indicting Jihad John. … The problem with having the police in charge of this is they’re really not geared towards intelligence collection.” Former National Security Council official Dane Egli said he doesn’t object to the FBI’s current role but believes there is wisdom in designating a government-wide coordinator. “You need a neutral arbiter who can bring together interlocutors across the interagency, which is a complex web sometimes,” he said. “The point is to have a more visible, active coordination.” Hunter said he plans to offer the legislation as an amendment to this year’s National Defense Authorization Act. He said he expects the measure to have wide support in the House Armed Services Committee, on which he serves. But he also expects a fight from others on Capitol Hill, including the FBI. “I expect them to be even more resistant than they have been to giving up any turf, even if it’s for the betterment of the families, the hostages or our country,” Hunter said.