Dr. Phil Says Nick Gordon Feels Guilty for Failing Bobbi Kristina Brown
Dr. Phil is wading into the fray in the on-going battle between Nick Gordon and the family of Bobbi Kristina Brown. The talk show host recently conducted an emotional, revealing interview with Gordon, and now  Dr. Phil is sitting down with ET's Kevin Frazier to talk about the volatile situation.  "I went to Atlanta to interview Nick. When I got there, the interview became an intervention, " Dr. Phil explained.  "When we get to Atlanta, his lawyers, who we were talking to, said, 'Listen, he is out of control. We are afraid that he is going to be dead if something doesn't happen. We can't control him.' " According to Dr. Phil, Gordon's behavior was erratic during the intervention. NEWS: Dr. Phil Stages 'Intervention' with Bobbi Kristina's Boyfriend Nick Gordon   "He'd go from being able to talk like we're talking now to just all of a sudden collapsing and wailing, " the 64-year-old host revealed.  "And then he would pull out his phone and turn on a Whitney song and just start crying. " Dr. Phil believes substance abuse is what caused Gordon's bizarre and unpredictable behavior.  "All I know is that the time I spent with him, he was definitely abusing alcohol and says that he was taking drugs, " he said. Dr. Phil also speculated that Gordon's alleged use of drugs and alcohol could stem from feeling guilt over what happened to Bobbi Kristina and even her mother, Whitney Houston. VIDEO: Bobby Brown's Family on Bobbi Kristina: 'She's Getting Better'   "He was saying, 'I feel a huge amount of guilt here.' He says, 'My job from the time I moved in with these people, was to protect Whitney and protect Krissy,' " Dr. Phil explained.  "Whitney is dead. Bobbi is in a coma. He thinks he has failed them horribly. He said, 'I feel so guilty about that.' And then he says, 'I am in so much pain. I want to be with her. Let me be with her. I want to stroke her hair, I want to touch her, I want to kiss her forehead. I want her to hear my voice.' " Gordon has not been allowed to see Bobbi Kristina in the hospital. According to lawyers for her father, Bobby Brown, Gordon has not agreed to the conditions the family has decided upon to allow Gordon to see his comatose girlfriend.  "What I want to know, and what I went to find out, is this a kid that got caught up in this rocket fueled life in fame and rock n roll and then the trauma that has happened? Or was he the trauma? " Dr. Phil explained. NEWS: Bobbi Kristina Brown and Nick Gordon Were Not Legally Married, Says Bobby Brown's Attorney  For now, Dr. Phil's primary focus and concern is Gordon's recovery and safety.  "What I know so far is what I've heard from him during the intervention and my focus, at that time, was I didn't want a third tragedy, " Dr. Phil said.  "My first consideration is that I don't want him dead. I don't want him overdosed. "  "[Gordon] was out of control. He needed to be reined in. He needed to be under control. He was emotionally charged and high as a kite, " he claimed.  "We have him in rehab. How long he stays,  how far into the program he gets, we'll see. " NEWS: Family Says Nick Gordon 'Declined to Meet the Terms' to Visit Bobbi Kristina  While Gordon sits in rehab, Bobbi Kristina remains in a coma in an Atlanta hospital. Bobbi Kristina turned 22 on March 4. Bobby Brown and her family remain positive and hopeful that she will recover.  "We continue to request privacy in this matter, " Bobby's lawyer said.  "We thank everyone that supports Bobbi Kristina and God is hearing our prayers. "