Shailene Woodley Has a Very Unique Way of Loving People
Shailene Woodley has never been shy about her unique philosophies. The 23-year-old Insurgent actress -- who's been open about everything from sunbathing her private parts to eating clay -- is similarly candid in her new interview with ELLE, in which she talks about her preferred way to love another person. Listen how the magazine recounts Woodley's description of her  "all-loving " ways.  "I never want to love like this " -- Woodley holds her arms outstretched, as if to envelop you -- "I always want to love like this. " She thrusts her arms behind her back, pressing her chest forward.  "Heart centered, like, 'This is who I am! And I love you if you love me for who this person is. And if not, I'll still love you, but I ain't fallin' in love with you!' "  PHOTOS: Shailene Woodley Poses Topless for 'Glamour UK,' Talks 'Fifty Shades of Grey'   She also has a metaphor for her significant other, though she remains tight-lipped about his identity -- Shailene just  "smiles " when asked if she's currently in love.  "When you're truly in love, for me, it's...you're my lighthouse! " she says.  "You're somebody who holds me high, keeps me safe, you've got my f**kin' back.... You also love me whole, wild, and free. You let me do me, and I'm gonna let you do you! And I'll be the home that you return to. " The Fault in Our Stars actress attributes her strong personality to her family.  "I was born into a family of warriors, really strong people, " she explains.  "It doesn't mean that it was an easy childhood and we didn't have our s**t, because every family does behind closed doors. But even though my parents are divorced, they get along. I have a family who every day strives to do the right thing. " She's particularly influenced by her grandmother, whom she describes as  "the most banging 69-year-old I've ever met in my life. "  "She's so fit, " she gushes.  "She's so rad! " She shares one piece of advice her  "Grams "  has given her that has stuck with her to this day.  "One day I was having one of my teenage crises, when you think everything's falling apart -- your estrogen and progesterone are freaking out, " she recalls.  "And she said, 'Shai, the most important thing in life is self-love. You've gotta take care of yourself. You've got to take care of yourself, and you gotta live from your deep heart.' "  "For some reason, her saying the words deep heart just always stuck with me, " she adds.  " ... What I've come to determine in my life is that my deep heart is my -- it's my compassion, empathy, and intuition. " VIDEO: Shailene Woodley's Fashion Time Warp ET recently caught up with the free-spirited Shailene to talk about Insurgent -- the highly anticipated sequel to  last year's Divergent -- when she also dished about her thoughts on social media and how she stays in shape. Watch below: