In this regard , we suggest that the Istanbul Process in association with regional mechanisms of security cooperation , convene a meeting regarding regional cooperation precisely what H . E . suggesting to give it concrete shape and movement forward . Our relations with Pakistan , first again let me state as H . E . stated , millennia of relationship bind us to South Asia . Afghans , Tagore famously give us a brand that a millions of dollars of advertisements could not do through a short story of Kabuli Wala , have been on the move . We have been entrepreneurs , we have connections , and there are millions of refugees in Pakistan and in Iran . The dignified return of these refugees is absolutely central to regional cooperation and that requires coordination in the elimination of the threats that currently haunt us . With regional cooperation , I m confident that we could generate double digit growths that ensure poverty elimination . But , our central issue is state to state cooperation and that again is multi dimensional , political to political , military to military , economy to economy , and finally intelligence to intelligence . We need to create the framework for comprehensive cooperation so that , in the light of the drivers of conflict , we can fashion solutions that are going to be lasting . Peace , therefore , is not equivalent to reconciliation . Peace requires dealing with all the drivers of conflict so that a multi dimensional peace that truly will ensure that all of us live in harmony , that all of us can count on each other for enforcing an agreed set of rules of the game is as such . As part of this , because H . E . the Prime Minister and I both do not believe in blame games , we would like to suggest mechanisms of verification . Again , Istanbul Process and association , with regional and international security organizations should reach agreement on a mechanism of verification , as to what type of actors threaten our common interests because with a proper regime of verifications , we could fashion the instruments of cooperation .
