And now to those Americans freed in that prisoner want with raunch they are still in Germany and this morning we are seeing and hearing from two of them as they celebrate their freedom . ABC ' s Brian Ross is here with more . Good morning . Reporter : Good morning . It ' s a good day for the released Americans now recovering at the U . S . Military hospital in landstuhl , Germany , where officials say they are beginning the formal reintegration process today . Finally something to laugh about for " Washington post " reporter Jason rezaian . In the first video of him as a free man released overnight , he chuckles with his wife over a joke that poked fun at his Iranian captors for claiming he was a spy . It was also a great day for another of the freed Americans , 32 year old amir hekmati , eager to tell the world Iran did not break him . I feel alive for the first time . It ' s like being born again and I just really feel proud to be an American . Reporter : Hekmati said he and the three other released Americans so mistrusted the Iranians that they did not relax until their swissair force plane cleared Iranian airspace after a delay of some 12 hours . Champagne bottles were popped . Reporter : Hekmati was held for more than four years at Iran ' s notorious even prison where his family says he was tortured . My name is amir hekmati . Reporter : And forced to make this false confession video after which he was sentenced to death for being a cia spy . A former marine , hekmati said Tuesday it was his regard for his fellow Marines that kept him going , especially after some of them organized an online hunger strike to support him . I didn ' t want to let my fellow Marines down , so I tried my best to , you know , keep my head up and withstand all the pressures that were put upon me , some of which were very inhumane and unjust . Semper fi to all the Marines out there . Semper fi , the marine motto , always faithful . Today there are new developments in the case of the American who was left behind , former FBI agent bob Levinson . The white house now says it has reason to believe he is no longer in Iran , but they provided no other details about his whereabouts . The Levinson family says it was surprised at the white house comment which the family said has betrayed them by not making sure he too was brought home . Amy and George . Really adds to the mystery there . Thanks very much .
