On security , our key goal was to generate peace . I ve had to become a war president because an all out war has been imposed us . We ve gone through seven phases of a war , each more intense than the previous one but I m extremely proud , as the Commander in Chief of the Afghan forces , to share that the main objective our enemies that was to divide Afghanistan into two political geographies has not been realized . Our people have paid an immense price . Our children have been murdered while playing in fields . Our women have been murdered while going shopping or attending schools . Our mosques have been attacked , hospitals have been attacked . All civilian spaces , all spaces of public gatherings have been viciously attacked but our will and our resilience , I hope , has been demonstrated . Our will is strong and the Afghan Security and Defense Forces , contrary to the predictions of skeptics , have not only held together , they are learning fast and no vacuums have been created . Here , let me again thank the Commander of Resolute Support Mission , John Campbell , for his very able role in assisting and supporting us . I would also like to indicate our gratitude , first to President Obama for his very principle decision to extend the mission of the Resolute Support Mission , as well as leaders in Europe ? Chancellor Merkel , Prime Minister Renzi , Prime Minister of Sweden , and UK Prime Minister Cameron , and leaders of 14 nations that have again joined us in supporting this mission . International forces will not have a combat role . Let me repeat , Afghan forces are fully assuming the responsibility , but our true friends have come to help us and we express gratitude for this international solidarity . Let me also thank all governments that have financially supported in addition to the governments that I have named , government of Canada , governments of Australia , Japan , and many other nations are supported our security forces and this again is an act of international solidarity for which , on behalf of people and the government of Afghanistan , I say thank you .
