there are people who don t hate us at all , in fact who feel very attached to the band , and have put a lot of themselves into their care of us , who feel betrayed by us coming back and playing . who had traveled for or tried to go to the MSG show , and who found it to be an important moment for them , which now to them feels cheapened . i just hadn t considered that . i know ? ridiculous on my part . i saw some comments online a few days ago from people who felt that way , and it blindsided me , and made me incredibly sad . i saw some other people replying with stuff like if that s what you cared about , and you don t want them to play anymore , maybe you liked the band for pretty weird reasons , and it made me think . the truth is , while i get what the replier is saying , i kind of side with the original complaint : if you cared a lot about our band , and you put a lot of yourself into that moment ( or anything about us you chose ) , and you feel betrayed now , then i completely understand that . it s your right to define what you love about a band , and it s your right to decry their actions and words as you see fit , because it s you , frankly , who have done much of the work to sustain that relationship , not the band . i was so clearly expecting the cynical cries of foul , that i hadn t seen the heartfelt complaint coming . we ve always talked about how we d never betray anyone who cares about us , but here we are now . given the chance again to make new music with the people i care about , and who have given a big part of their lives to doing this weird thing together , and who wanted to do it again , i took it . and in doing so , i betrayed whoever feels betrayed by that action . i by no means think that everyone who liked our band feels bad right now . a lot of people who liked our band are very happy , and we ve been pretty blown away by the almost overwhelmingly positive response . last night i sat with al and nancy in a weird italian bar and we talked about how fucking awesome it was that so many people were happy to have us back . but that doesn t take away from those who feel hurt . to you i have to say : i m seriously sorry . the only thing we can do now is get back into the studio and finish this record , and make it as fucking good as we can possibly make it . it needs to be better than anything we ve done before , in my mind , because it won t have the help of being the first time . and we have to play better than we ve ever played , frankly . every show has to be better than the best show we ve played before for anyone to even say well , that was good . i mean , not as good as they used to be . but , you know . it was good . we know all that . which is healthy for us , because it means we go back to war , like in the beginning . for us it was always war , but now it s really with ourselves . maybe we have a chance to make it right .
