We begin a skinny with last night ' s star studded red carpet event in London celebrating one that is . Bond James jeans . The world premiere of Specter the latest installment of the film franchise it brought out of course Daniel Craig . This is after all the fourth time he ' s playing the British spy looking . Dapper . He will either don ' t look at he was of course joined by the bind women to come the bond girls that they look amazing company standing there . And they were upstaged by the royal arrival of the detained Cambridge look at that oh my goodness William and Kate . Turning heads as they always do they stepped onto the red carpet but let ' s not forget Prince Harry they are rocking . I ' m very regal red beard he would make Ukraine and he could give bon oh my gosh is he auditioning is is this is about the . If they were received by Craig who think we ' ve been get a little annoyed with a reporter asking the question very much on everyone ' s mind . People still want to know when Mathieu make a decision about when we wanted to do that the other day I don ' t you had a weekend to think about it I don ' t know yet . The reporter you have a weakened I think I do my question . That is right we shouldn ' t get ahead of ourselves we see Creag inspector state side on . November ' s . We got way to look at reports about it always and always I do want to put a plug my favorite Idris Elba . Who I do believe I ' m in my client should be the next James Bond I ' m not a big fan but of that I would like to Daniel Craig again . But we ' ll see if you know there fight words . Turning to the singing sensation known as the weekend . Along with Elvis The Beatles he is one of only a handful of musicians have two different number one songs in the rubble he ' s living large as you know on the cover of the newest Rolling Stone magazine but all that success isn ' t . Keeping him out of trouble the two Ronald native who ' s real name is . Able test by U . A native western got there have completed an up and pleaded no contest to punching us Vegas police officer in the face outside a nightclub . Back in January and the judge agreed to dismiss the charges as long as he agrees to pay a 1000 dollar fine complete . Fifty hours of community service and attend impulse control counseling so that we were surprised to learn existed in Los things . Richard . Responding to fake story published on FaceBook because well it ' s nice fake story yet that ' s expected at this all started with a photo of him dressed as a homeless man . On the street it was during filming for the movie time out of mind . There ' s the pick was then posted to FaceBook with a fictitious caption it went viral . And now has caught gears own attention the actress has borrowed his costar general owns FaceBook page where . He will be host Hugh Hewitt a on the issue of homelessness and he hopes it ' ll quote make something good and meaningful happened for homeless Brothers and sisters statement . You can join the conversation by Tamar an 11 AM eastern on the loans . FaceBook page and finally let ' s recap last night spooky stars in the ballroom it was Halloween night on Dancing With The Stars of the competition Barrington . The contestants really going for it last night but the night ' s biggest moment . Didn ' t involve any dance moves but getting into the holiday spirit by spooking guess focus we have remedy . Or . Really scared to . Get our Braxton receiver Louis for the evening for her bounds fox trot to get craftsman last week . And that might have been enough to keep her from avoiding elimination but he ' s Greer got the boot no need to know he had a really great night and he ' s good .
