Donald Trump right now . No question bit . What a scene last night . Donald Trump toe to toe with bill O ' Reilly on Fox News . All signs he did not convince him to take the debate stage . Take a look at these poll Numbers gaining momentum in Iowa now at 32 . Is trump , though , taking a risk not showing up at tonight ' s debate . Or is he keeping his momentum going ? That is the big question now . He ' ll hold his own event in des Moines and tweeted out a couple other candidates will join him now . Just four days until the Iowa caucuses . It ' s " Your voice , your vote " and we begin with Tom llamas in des Moines . Good morning , Tom . Reporter : George , good morning to you . This gop debate fiasco has essentially turned into a prize fight . Senator Ted Cruz saying last night heing booed a venue for Saturday night in Sioux City , Iowa , to debate trump one on one and superpac says they ' ll give 1 . 5 million to a veterans charity if trump shows up . Overnight the gop drama starring Donald Trump taking wild turns . I don ' t think not showing up at the debate tomorrow night is good for America . Reporter : First trump appearing on the very network whose debate he ' s boycotting . I was not treated well by fox and I said , you know , how much of this do you take ? I have zero respect for megyn Kelly . I don ' t hi she ' s very good at what she does . In your Christian faith Reporter : Host bill O ' Reilly turning to the bible suggesting trump channel his Christian values and appear at tonight ' s debate instead of hosting his own event at drake university . You know it ' s called an eye for an eye also . You can look at it that way . That ' s old testament . No , no , no . Bill , you are taking If you ' re the Christian , the eye for the eye goes out . Turn the other cheek . Right here . You ' re taking this much more seriously than I am . Reporter : Asking trump if he ' s being too tense tiff . A thought thought this was a yoke when you started to run . That you ' re a buffoon . I don ' t think they thought I was a buffoon . What kind of a statement is that ? Reality guy Not a nice way of expressing . No , they thought I wouldn ' t run . Reporter : Overnight another development . In a one on one debate mano a mano . Reporter : The Cruz team sending this letter to the trump campaign announcing the duel which reads in part , we owe it to the men and women of Iowa . So , we have a venue . We have a time all we ' re missing is a candidate . Reporter : The trump campaign calling this a desperate attempt to gain more publicity and that the Cruz campaign is failing in Iowa . I caught up with Cruz after his late night rally . You think Donald Trump is afraid to debate you personally . Actions speak louder than words . I would welcome him in sioux City Saturday night . We have a venue , a town hall and at the end of the day I don ' t think he ' s afraid of megyn Kelly . I don ' t even think he ' s afraid of me . I think he ' s afraid of the people of Iowa . Doesn ' t want to answer their questions or defend his record . Reporter : And as for that 1 . 5 million in superpac money from that superpac supporting Ted Cruz if the debate happens between trump and Cruz , the trump campaign tells me superpac money is dirty money and the superp superpacs own Ted Cruz and open to debating but in Canada .
