The countdown is on to the republican debate just one day away right here on ABC and the candidates are teaming up to take on each other . The latestle pos showing trump in the lead in New Hampshire , but Marco Rubio gaining momentum . ABC ' s Jon Karl is in Manchester with the latest on all of that . Good morning , Jon . Reporter : Good morning , Amy . After his second place finish in Iowa , Donald Trump is taking nothing for granted here in new Hampshire where he has a commanding lead and is fighting hard to keep it . This is really crunch time . Reporter : With five event as cross New Hampshire it was trump ' s busiest day yet in the granite state . My colleague Tom llamas caught up with him in Portsmouth . I ' m only worried about one thing , New Hampshire . Reporter : It has turned into a game of survivor forming alliances as they fight to the finish . Trump is teaming up with Ben Carson to slam Ted Cruz over his campaign ' s misleading claim that Carson was , quote , likely to drop out after Iowa . ABC news has obtained voice mays left by the Cruz campaign on the night of the Iowa caucus . Please inform any Carson caucusgoers to this news and urge them to caucus for Ted instead . Reporter : Apologized to Carson but denies any wrongdoing . When you win in the state of Iowa your opponents want to tear you down . Reporter : The latest polls in New Hampshire show Rubio rising . ABC news got an exclusive behind the scenes look with Rubio on the campaign trail where his crowds are growing by the day . We wish you the best . Thank you . I ' ll be back . That ' s just the overflow . Just the overflow . They couldn ' t fit them all in . They couldn ' t get them all in , no . Reporter : On his campaign bus Rubio defended his record . What about all these governors we have running , far more executive experience and look at you and say you ' re a freshman north . They don ' t have more foreign policy experience . That ' s the most important job of the president . Do you think Donald Trump is ready to be president . On national security he hasn ' t shown to date a deep level of depth upon those issues . Reporter : Today for the most part the candidates are prepping for tomorrow night ' s debate which will happen right here , Amy . And for realistically the highest stakes debate yet coming right before the New Hampshire primary . Oh , yes , Jon Karl , we cannot wait . Someone else counting the days , Martha Raddatz , co anchoring the debate with David Muir . The excitement is building with just hours to go . The excitement is building . It ' s great to be back at St St . Anselm college , where we were with the democrats in December and all those republicans on stage , everybody looking for momentum and there is one thing that I can absolutely guarantee , Amy , there will be heated exchanges , everybody , everybody wants to survive this debate and move forward , but it may be the last chance for some . Amy . All right , Martha , and that republican debate , again , is tomorrow , moderated by Martha Raddatz and " World news tonight " anchor David Muir that starts at 8 P . M . , 7 central right here on ABC .
