We turn to Chicago , a city on edge protesters taking to the street overnight and now threatening to disrupt black Friday shopping as new video is released of that officer now charged with murder . ABC ' s Alex Perez is in Chicago with the very latest . Good morning , Alex . Reporter : Good morning , Lara . Overnight protesters marching here on the magnificent mile . Officers say they are looking into this case and trying to figure out what exactly they can do to keep things safe . This morning , new images from the dash cam inside Chicago police officer Jason van dyke ' s squad car showing 17 year old laquan McDonald running away as van dyke pursued him . Shortly after , the officer gets out of the car and shoots the teenager 16 times in 15 seconds . We will not show you the entire video . This as we ' re learning more details about van dyke ' s past with the police department , according to civilian watchdog group invisible institute , citizens filed at least 20 complaints against him since he joined the force in 2001 including allegations of using excessive force and racial slurs . But so far , van dyke was not disciplined . ABC news has confirmed 18 complaints . Overnight in Chicago , protesters back on the streets even trying to tear the lights off the city ' s Christmas tree . Many critical of the state ' s attorney who investigated the case for nearly a year before charging van dyke with first degree murder . Legal experts say that charge for an off duty cop is rare . It ' s a hard case to prove and particularly against a cop . It has to be shown you intended to do serious bodily harm or death and that you had no justification for it . Reporter : With protesters vowing to disrupt holiday shopping on Chicago ' s famed Michigan avenue president Obama weighing overnight posting on his Facebook , I was deeply disturbed by the footage and I ' m grateful to the people of my hometown for keeping protests peaceful . And van dyke ' s defense argues he fired his weapon because he feared for his life . While there have been some tense moments at most of these protests , by the way , have been peaceful . Lara . I ' m sure more tense moments to come . Thank you so much .
