ABC ' s Rick Klein ABC ' s political director joins us live . There and now Rick a big night in Washington a big night for President Obama . It is and he won ' t have a poker face because this is one of the last opportunities he ' s gonna have guys that took to command the national attention . In this election year so much of the country . Has already moved on President Obama very cognizance of that fact and he ' s also cognizant of the fact that . There may be nothing that he does this entire year . As important as laying the ground work for this presidential election it is such a political year he of course is a political animal and we are just getting started to this is an opportunity for him to frame the conversation . That frankly gotten quite a bit away from both him and Democrats more generally . And Rick that he happened to endorse a candidate but it . There is only one Democrat that is running for the nomination that has in fact served in the Obama administration do you think . Anything in his speech tonight we ' ll try either tactically tacitly . Or deliberately to to support Hillary . I ' d be surprised if he did anything they got I ' m involved he was asked just the other day . Are you gonna get involved in this primary says no he ' s not going to endorse but I ' ll tell you the more intriguing figure may be looking at Joseph Biden right to his office right shoulder because the vice president . Just yesterday I gave an interview he ' s very complimentary about Bernie Sanders and in his commitment to issues . Involving poverty and economic . Insecurity inequality so look Hillary Clinton ' s does notice . That was quite a jab and it was read as such by Hillary Clinton and her aids they were caught off guard by that remark . Surprise that he be going there so what it did no question . To most people in Washington that that bill that Clinton Barack Obama wants Hillary Clinton to be the successor that ' s the cleanest or hand off . And he does think that that ' s the one candidate out there more than Bernie Sanders of Martin O ' Malley this position to win the general election but he ' s not looking to put his finger on the scales of the democratic primary I think his name much more about Republicans but all of whom by the way it would undo the work that he ' s done of the last seven years at that I think in terms of the politics is where he ' s at . Well Rick turn to the work he can still do because this is not it ' s not the end of his presidency tonight . What are you going to be looking for in terms of what he says about work that is still yet to be done that he can actually take action on in the coming months . I ' m looking for emotion I ' m looking for swagger from the president because he ' s gonna have to go it alone look he ' s walked into this chamber in such different circumstances . When he first took office in 2009 it was . Be the height of the economic recession and a lot of insecurities out there are a lot of worries out there and he had a lot of friends and allies in the audience and Democrats . We ' re willing to work with him and then followed . Perhaps most productive two years in recent memory in terms of legislation and major achievements including . Obama care including the big Al out including some other legislation that didn ' t end up going anywhere . Around the environments run immigration . But since that time since that first two years it ' s about protecting the gains of those initial two years so . He is now at a stage where realistically it is only a handful of things that can get done with congress is what gets done around congress . He outlined those gun control measures just last week where else is he staking out . A territory the other thing I ' m looking for totally is . The swagger of how he ' s bragging about what ' s done because if he can . Convince the American people it is the people that are willing to be convinced by him that things are going well countries headed in the right direction . That ' s the best thing he can do for . Clinton that ' s the best thing you do for its legacy and this is a skilled performer knows that . And so why are you think is going to be key to that because we just in the new poll numbers that are out today Rick spent . Most Americans don ' t think the president is doing an exceptional job . That ' s right and it ' s his failing that he be in in a large part of communication to not get that point across these the first to it to say that into acknowledged that as a as a problem that he ' s gonna have to continue to work on and it comes at a time of diminishing influence that he can he can go out there talk about things less and less people are paying attention to both so much attention . Already when he sixteen but the reason I think it ' s wires because it is a sales job . Donald Trump above all should show you how that ' s done politics you have to convince people that things are moving in the right direction he ' s got a lot that he prop . It ' s the achievements of the economy ' s movement he ' s got a lot missiles the work on I think the way he addresses national security concerns . Very very important tonight as well . But he is global last remaining big messenger out there and in public office he has the power of the presidency the bully pulpit tonight and throughout this year how he frames this argument and whether he can convince people that the country is moving in in that direction is positive it is worth continuing that legacy with another damp . And we go back to just something else that you mentioned . I think that this whole Bernie Sanders Vice President Biden thing went so interesting and even today when he came on that . On TV to try clarified his remarks on stilts and the like he was supporting the auditors . They sure did lot of Andy whether or not it ' s an explicit support clearly there ' s an affection there and part of that passed me based on you have to think . That Vice President Biden thinks if I was in this race I would be winning right now I ' d be doing better than Hillary Clinton I be addressing these concerns . And it happens through this last State of the Union Address from President Obama . Comes at a time that Bernie Sanders is doing a lot of what . Barack Obama did to Hillary Clinton eight years ago it ' s remarkable to see the similarities in terms of the online fundraising base in the liberal activists are starting to get involved and now two polls out one of Iowa New Hampshire bowled with Bernie Sanders name in front of Hillary Clinton . She has seen this movie before and the fact that we ' re still having these arguments for our around her . Deeply frustrating to her and speaking to something larger going on in the country right now . And as a liberal kind of mirror image to what Donald Trump is tapped into in terms of the anger . The frustration . Beaten the visceral . Kind of feeling that these people are not on your side of the systems as stacked against you . Donald Trump his his hit that note . On the conservative side this is Bernie Sanders hitting and on the liberal side and against all lives this 74 year old Jewish independence socialists and their from Vermont . Is looking like he ' s in striking distance . Of beating the most formidable . Non incumbents potential nominee in the history of presidential politics it ' s really an amazing moment to have Bernie Sanders sensing the moment and up there right now . Break that description of senator Sanders is one of the most complicated and and yet the body that I have a couple of at the end . And I ' ll see regularly 74 year old . Democratic socialists Jewish senator from Vermont there ' s a lot there that says this guy can ' t what I did about as air flat on his bumper stickers that it ' ll anger by the end of this thing continues at the and Edwards that it ' s it to put into all you need is a hair we need that luck and you say . This guy really no one really don ' t know one I would say Bernie Sanders included but January is right now this this is about . Making a statement this is about making a stand not letting Hillary Clinton to one opposed and . And you can have you can see in early on he ' d go out there he get is like 30 or something like that show up at the convention and gladly say that he influence the debate this is so much more than that now guys . This is an actual movement that has actual electoral possibility . It ' s different rate seconds Ilya getting psyched up already Rick Klein I have to ask you before we let you go I know you got your tradition a debate not chances . During each of the presidential debate if there as stated the union knack for recline . There is such a good question you know I ' m content it ' s because it ' s . Because it ' s the last one that you could maybe have an alcoholic effort for for part of it but I think that ' s problem you might Ginsburg is exactly subtle . Probably still not appropriate I have to say but no I I into tonight it ' s pizza . It ' s debate heats which is totally on helpful leaving in its secrets in the campaign theme because it ' s a campaign year . I ' m just ready to carve up and and slog through so that ' s what we ' re doing and by the way this is going to be so much less complicated and one of these debates right like Donald file won ' t be there you don ' t have all the cross currents this is just one person . For one block a time laying out his vision of politically . This is this the easy by comparison right yes . That indeed he does make it if you . Thank you so much for joining us .
