the president said about his role in the fight against cancer . There were lighter moments . Yeah , there was a moment right before the president ' s speech where it was more red carpet than a political speech but take a look at secretary of state John Kerry as he arrives . Secretary , who are you wearing ? Loved his reaction . His reaction said it all . I don ' t think he was expecting that at all . No , no , no , a lot were tweeting about what the first lady was wearing and sold out before the speech was over . President Obama clearly focused on his successor as the race for the democratic nomination tightens . A new national poll shows Hillary Clinton with her smallest lead yet on Bernie sanders . ABC ' s Cecilia Vega is still there on the trail in Iowa and joins us this morning again , good morning , Cecilia . Reporter : Robin , good morning to you . Another poll showing what would have been unimaginable a couple of months ago , the once presumed democratic front runner Hillary Clinton now trailing here in Iowa . This morning , it is all on the line for Hillary Clinton . We ' re getting into that period before the caucus that I kind of call the let ' s get real period . Reporter : Vermont senator Bernie sanders with a stunning new lead in Iowa , 49 to Clinton ' s 44 . Clinton calling those Numbers unpredi unpredictable . I don ' t pay they attention to this . Reporter : But sanders is rush brushing off Clinton ' s claim that he ' s been soft on gun control to ABC ' s Mary Bruce . She wants to talk all the time about a vote I cast 10 , 12 years ago . That ' s fine . Reporter : Also fighting in Iowa . If I run , let ' s assume it ' s Hillary although she should be in prison in all fairness . Reporter : Donald Trump going after both opponents across the aisle . I dream running against Bernie . I would love to run against a socialist . Or a communist . I don ' t know what he is . He might be a communist . I think he ' s sort of tipped over the ledge . Reporter : Hoping to tip the scales herself , Clinton now calling in backup . Senator sanders wants to dismantle obamacare , dismantle the C . H . I . P . Program . Reporter : Chelsea Clinton not mincing words , like mother like daughter ? If that ' s the revolution he ' s talking about , I ' m worried , folks . Reporter : Clinton has been here trying to convince voters she is the electable candidate but that new poll also found that two thirds of Iowa democrats believe Bernie sanders has a good shot at winning the white house in November . Just over two weeks until the vote . Cecilia Vega , thanks very much .
