Anger surrounding the Oscars the academy responding overnight the calls for a boycott from stars including Jada Pinkett Smith and Spike Lee issuing a statement promising . Quote big changes to help fix Hollywood ' s diversity problem ABC ' s Lindsey Davis is here . With the latest good morning with good morning guys with the hash tag Oscars so white trending again this year and multiple big name actors promising to boycott the awards . He academy had to say something . And that responses coming from the academy ' s first black president who says they are taking dramatic steps to bring about much needed diversity . Yeah . This morning a host of Hollywood heavyweights are announcing a boycott of the 2016 . Oscar ' s not be at the Academy Awards and a movie laughs . Jada Pinkett Smith posting this video explain why she ' s skipping out on Tinseltown ' s biggest night we can no longer . Day . Four . 800 teen . Expects . Indy . Also joining the boycott director Spike Lee who challenged the academy ' s lack of diversity this past November while accepting his own honorary Oscar . We need to have some serious discussion much adversity . And get some sleep openness sleet wrote in an answer rentals Monday that he cannot support it . And posed the question hallows is possible for the second consecutive year alt what he contenders under the actor category are why . Last night the academy ' s president Cheryl Boone Isaacs responded to the brewing controversy . Admitting in a statement that she is heartbroken and frustrated about the lack of inclusion . And promising the academy is taking dramatic steps to Alter the makeup of our membership . While the academy does not release the demographic info on its members according to 2003 . LA times investigation the academy is 93 . White . Down just 1 from 2012 . Would African Americans making up only 2 that year to sell . At an awards ceremonies were Isaacs acts of a star David OLO echoed the concerns of many . For that to happen again . This year . Is unforgivable . I ' m Chris rock and I hope some are wondering how this year ' s host comedian Chris Rock . We ' ll handle the growing controversy on the big night . Both Jada Pinkett Smith and Spike Lee have both acknowledge Chris Rock sing that they mean no disrespect but certainly puts comedian who will have the first word at last word of the night . A bit of a precarious situations and they both within they ' ve supported them say they understand him doing that I know that he will do . A good job and I don ' t know if you saw Davis FaceBook gives us . Such Grace Adler and also director Michael board he tweeted this overnight he said I support Jada Pinkett Smith and Spike Lee and will join with them . I believe the academy will fix this thank you president Cheryl Boone high six in Spike Lee . Two taking her at her and Spike Lee will be live on GMA tomorrow and they ' re talking about the Oscars controversy but . Just very respectful how everybody is handling of this in the bottom line wanting change running change seems like it ' s coming com .
