Your obligatory Steph Curry update : The NBA s Golden Child has six 40 point games already this season after just three in his entire MVP season in 2014 15 . He s also already earned six fourth quarters of total rest in the Warriors first 20 games and is scoring 37 . 8 percent of his points this season in the third quarter . In total , Curry has rung up 640 points in 685 minutes on a mere 403 shots , while averaging 11 . 1 3 pointer attempts per game . The single season record for 3s per game is Baron Davis 8 . 7 in 2003 04 . . . . Can t say I know exactly what the Sixers young players are going through , but I think I have an inkling . A 15 game ( or more ) losing streak to start one s NBA career is not exclusive to Jahlil Okafor and T . J . McConnell , nor last season s unfortunate Philly rooks ( Nerlens Noel and K . J . McDaniels ) . The Clippers once had a trio of rookies who began their careers with an 0 16 nightmare : Lamond Murray , Eric Piatkowski and Matt Fish in 1994 95 . And I will never forget it because it was my first full season on the NBA beat for the Los Angeles Daily News . . . . As covered recently in this space , Bryant says he doesn t have any plans to satiate his fans abroad by playing a season in Italy or China when he s done with the NBA . But playing in the Olympics could serve as that farewell to the international basketball public , which Bryant addressed in a Friday morning visit on ESPN Radio with Mike and Mike , saying : Obviously I grew up overseas and have seen basketball grow globally . It s come so far , so fast . ( I ) would love nothing more to be in an international environment and be around so many other great athletes one more time . That being said , it s not something I m obsessing over , either , because I ve got to listen to my body , too . If my body can t do it , there s no sense in doing it . So God willing , hopefully , if they feel I can make a significant contribution and my body is up for it . . . if that s the case then I would love to play .
