Less than 24 hours after we saw former President Bill Clinton hitting the campaign trail trying to seal the deal a New Hampshire for his wife . Tonight Bernie Sanders who holds a slim lead there has come out with a tough new message for Wall Street . Quote greed is not good saying it ' s time to blow up the banks that are too big to fail . ABC Cecilia Vega one on one with Sanders tonight as a crowd of his supporters . Grew right behind . We need to have another Democrat in the White House Hillary Clinton now enlisting the big dog of democratic politics her most powerful weapon on the campaign trail . But there is one man standing in their way Secretary Clinton . Is wrong . Senator Bernie Sanders the democratic socialist from Vermont . Drying those massive crowds and twice as many donors as President Obama had at this stage in 2008 . Also beating Clinton in the polls and his own backyard New Hampshire . Today in New York Sanders bringing his fight against corporate America directly to Wall Street ' s front door . If a bank is too big that ' s now . It is too vague to exit . Sanders pledging to dismantle the nation ' s biggest banks and financial firms within the first year in office we met up with the senator . The mob of supporters there every step of the way you sound like you despise corporate America don ' t stand in angry . What are you the small audience . Is the agreement . Is the contempt so I asked about that pledged to break up those banks deemed too big to fail . A lot of people are gonna hear this promise from you today and say . There is no way it hasn ' t been done before this sounds like an election year promise how can you really do this . When enough people demand change . We get troops that is the history of America that is the history of the civil rights movement of the women ' s movement of the game of any movement that has brought about change . That blunt talk east Sanders trademark and we ' ll corporate America love the president Sanders no I think they won ' t . The question now . Will these crowds turn into votes if you don ' t win in New Hampshire does this spell the end of the various owners campaign absolutely not not wearing those to the end . Saying his campaign will not and the New Hampshire but are they at all concerned about Bill Clinton campaigning there now trying to shore up Hillary Clinton who is behind Sanders in New Hampshire . What David Sanderson says they always expected Bill Clinton to be out on the campaign trail they say they know they are the underdogs in this respect you hurt Bernie Sanders say it right there they plan to win New Hampshire they think they can win Iowa . They ' re not going away any times all right one on one with Sanders tonight to sillier thank you .
