The race for the next battleground is getting much tighter the new poll late today from New Hampshire and it comes just two days before the big debate here on ABC . Donald Trump in the lead and take a look here in second place now senator Marco Rubio gaining steam now pushing past senator Ted Cruz . And Donald Trump tonight determined to come in first in New Hampshire after Iowa holding five events in one day . The stakes are enormous Super Bowl weekend approaching and so was the debate the night before ABC ' s Tom Thomas in New Hampshire leading us off . Tonight don ' t troll trying to step up the hates this is really crunched but jam packed one day schedule . Greeting volunteers at his campaign office shaking hands with local police and barnstorming New Hampshire for every last vote so right now rut that the trouble that we can ' t get it mr . so many people in there and the fire or what they ' ve negated their Donald Trump . His motorcade coming in right now trumps message only outsider can fix America ' s problems no politicians that is . No politician he ' s played well I ' d like he is really foul language I won ' t do it I was going to save carefully and I won ' t say that no extra . It ' s rolled steel wailing away at senator Ted Cruz . Under fly directors campaign spread misleading information suggesting that doctor Ben Carson was dropping out of the race after the Iowa Caucuses . Tonight new voice mail service scene the crews campaign with its call on caucus state . All the speakers including the breaking news doctor Ben Carson will be going to suspend his campaign following night ' s caucuses we can form any parking caucus support to this news . And urge them to caucus for Kennedy instead . We just got voicemails happen on caucus stay along with the email what type of pattern DC with senator Ted Cruz worst campaign that you don ' t like . Well I haven ' t seen that I mean people have been talking about it and his staff was very unfair to doctor Carson I guess probably I was the one was hurt most by it because . Maybe I would have won but today crews saved from a sore loser . When you win in the state of Iowa your opponent monetary and they want to attack you they want to throw mud and now cruise played offense Jimmy Carter . Endorsed Donald Trump . I am not making that up . Not an endorsement but enough for a cruise attack that if I had a choice between intrusions . From . I think I would use problem . Throughout . Jimmy Carter Finley yeah . Yeah . That he had good taste top of the slot tonight you ' re out there on the trail of course all the campaigns aware of these shifting poll numbers in New Hampshire tonight it ' s crunch time . That ' s right David I just spoke with Donald Trump moments ago who tells me . He ' s not gonna rely on the polls this time he needs people to go and vote for rent and senator crew . Cruz is noticing a rubio surge but he says he wants to remind voters here in New Hampshire . He won the Iowa Caucuses senator rubio came in third place and bronze is not the new gold .
