It ' s great to have you with us here in a Wednesday night in we begin with breaking developments in the race for 2016 Donald Trump . Saying he will not show up at the Fox News debated just moments ago . Revealing what he will do instead . Trump announcing he will hold his own event for veterans members of Trump ' s family will be attending with him . All of this comes after his heated feud with Fox News and moderator Megyn Kelly . Kelly not backing down and what she ' s now saying tonight and the big question this evening will this help him could it hurt him among Iowa voters . New poll out tonight shows trump in the lead in Iowa ABC ' s Tom Ghana ' s leading a soft from the campaign trail . Tonight Donald Trump in Fulton litigate mode predicting without him know what will watch tomorrow ' s debate on faux news . They can ' t Torre with me like they too it with everybody else part of trumps problem . Fox anchor a debate moderator Megyn Kelly I ' m not a fan of Megyn Kelly I think she ' s a third rate reporter . I think she frankly is not good at what she does and I think they could do a lot better than making Kelly are bad blood started with this question at the first debate . You call women you don ' t like fat pigs dogs slobs . And disgusting animals . Your Twitter account only Rosie O ' Donnell . Are there . It was well beyond Rosie I guess venture as tomorrow ' s debate approached trump hinted he might not go . Do you really think she can be fair debate Fox News responded with this marquee statement . We learn from a secret back channel that the Ayatollah and Bruton both intend to treat Donald Trump unfairly trump has his own secret plan to replace the cabinet with his Twitter followers . Just hours later at a news conference trumps fury in full frame the GOP front runner . A Bruce read Fox News Kelly and her boss Roger Ailes . When they sent at the wise guy press releases a little while ago done by some PR person along with the Roger Ailes . I said by by him . On her she ' ll Megyn Kelly not backing down the truth is . He doesn ' t get to control the media even filmmaker Michael Moore a staunch liberal siding with Kelly and fox and it . You have done something that Jeb Bush . Chris Christie rubio crews that none of them have been able to do . Which is to that it ' s essentially . Bring him make him run wish I . I ' m gone from the trunk particularly again this morning trump not ready to move bond . Tweeting I refuse to call Megyn Kelly a bimbo because that would not be politically correct instead . I will only call her a lightly reporter . The Kelly trump relationship had not hope we so toxic . A lot of love on displayed 2011 . Would kill interviewed from about his plans to host don ' t candidates forum . Do you really think that you ' re better moderator than I am . No I could never be here that wouldn ' t even be close they ' ll be no cut this you have done a great job by the way I mean . Today Kelly saying she still thinks stroke we ' ll show tomorrow I ' ll be surprised if he doesn ' t count on it and it says he doesn ' t want it now but holiday surprise . Ropes closest rival senator Ted Cruz smelling blood in the water seen Trump ' s decision to skip the debate . About to skipping out on a job interview with I will voters . If someone did that . Didn ' t show up at the interview you know what you ' d say . Your fires . The Texas senators now challenging smoke . To debate him one on one will do ninety minutes Lincoln Douglas mono a mono Donald and me trump tweeting okay . Can we do in Canada . And Tom honest with us live tonight from Iowa Tom a lot of talk would be an empty podium tomorrow night . Fox News now saying they will remove it but you ' ve been talking to the trump campaign are they at all worried that this could hurt them by not showing up . No David they ' re not . The trump campaign is competent that their supporters will understand . Why Donald Trump had to make this decision the campaigns is that trump wrote the book the art of the deal and this debate was a bad deal . That said he is taking more heat tonight Senator John McCain tonight . Critical of the event that trump is hosting in place the debate saying I wish she were not using a veterans event as a way to further his own political agenda . David Todd now misleading us off again tonight .
