powerball ticket I think it ' s a good weekend to sit on your couch and watch the NFL . Here ' s why , the playoffs begin , wild card weekend , four big games that starts with the Houston texans hosting the Kansas City chiefs . You can watch it on both ABC and ESPN and joining us from ESPN studios right now is NFL analyst former player and coach herm Edwards . Good morning , coach . Thanks for joining us . Good morning . Have nice conditions in Houston , but not so much in Minnesota That ' s right . You know what , before we talk about today ' s texans chiefs game . It ' s all about tomorrow . Seattle . The ice bowl and freezer bowl . The prediction right now for the weather . The windchill could make it feel like 20 degrees below or colder , coach . How dangerous are those conditions ? Well , I don ' t know about dangerous so much . Who can withstand the elms . Both playing in a big game . You think about games of this nature , the first thing you ' re concerned with as a coach for the players is their feet and hands , keeping those things warm and then the balls . The balls have to be warm for the kickers obviously and the quarterback so you can ' t heat them with any heaters but that becomes a part of the process . Along with the wind conditions . Is it wet and is it windy or just windy or just dry and cold ? So these are the conditions you have to play in , especially in playoff atmosphere and it ' s outside , both teams . No one gets any edge on that . It ' s just mental toughness and obviously ball security . Yeah , no one gets the advantage . We have to start thinking of names . We ' ve seen the freezer bowl and ice bowl . Let ' s go back today . You once coached the chiefs playing the texans . Who do you like in the gamy . I like the chiefs . I like the roll they ' re on . Both these teams are built the same way . Lost their running backslier but found a way chiefs being , what , with two wins , Houston with two wins and find a way winning the division , the chiefs have won ten in a row now so I think the key is Alex smith . He is actually the only quarterback in the playoffs with all the quarterbacks that has not turned the ball over . He ' s been in three playoff games . He ' s thrown nine touchdown , zero interceptions . This defense of the chiefs takes the ball away , 119 points scored off takeaways . I think the chiefs find a way to win the game . I think it will be a fabulous football game . Both built the same way with good defenses and it ' s not going to be a high scoring affair at all . Enjoy the games from inside that the warm studios , coach . Particularly tomorrow ' s game . Thanks for joining us this morning . Reminder you can watch them starting at 4 : 20 in afternoon on both ABC and ESPN and this is pretty big because it ' s our first NFL game in ten years .
