In terms of the four transitions , very briefly , and then I come to main issue , which is regional security . Political transition in Afghanistan , we took the unusual step of forming the Government of National Unity . Let me assure , on behalf of Dr Abdullah , the Vice Presidents , and the members of the Cabinet , that the Government of National Unity is an enduring phenomenon . We ve learned from 300 years of discord that politics must become a win win formula not a lose lose proposition . And , that is an important part of the new political culture and as part of this , I strongly reiterate our commitment to a lasting and just peace , within which all movements that resort to arms covert themselves into political parties and participate in the political process legitimately . They need to reduce and renounce violence because violence is not the way in a democratic society and culture . Last year in Beijing , I brought your attention that we re facing one the hardest economic transition any country has seen . We inherited a deep recession bordering on a depression but we ve imposed an austerity program and met all our agreements with IMF , including for the first time all the revenue agreements . This is creating the ground for launching a stimulus package and a through growth series of programs that would ensure that Afghanistan s economy moves out of an aid dependent entity into a self reliance system , and as part of that , our location , our natural wealth , our water , our land , and entrepreneurial energies of our people will be harnessed . In terms of change of the culture of the state , there have been significant changes . Our first thing is our willingness to confront corruption . Kabul Bank had become the symbol of the failure of will . I m very pleased to share with you that out of the 800 million that they stole from the public purse , we ve realized fully 450 million to the legal process and are determined to realize the rest . But , let me come to security issue . On December 31st , 2014 , the NATO ISAF forces ended their combat role . I want to thank President Obama and the leaders of framework nations of Turkey , Italy , and our other colleagues from 14 nations that committed themselves to the Resolute Support Mission .
