I don ' t collapses times he let out for this particular stands on the campaign trial tanker that . I ' d worked think you ' ll package . When Carly Fiorina was CEO she laid off Wilbur 40000 people . And she says she ' s a great seat you ' ll everytime I see DirecTV or water reached the rule and strain . And just imagine you ' re laughing because the question is did Hillary Clinton make a mistake laughing . Yes because we held Carly Fiorina to a certain standard and expected her to put stock that voter at his and his or tracks . The saving the Donald Trump when they were saying that President Obama was a Muslim I think every politician especially when talking about violence against a woman with the Ulster wrangling . What he said it in a list that smoking is not only a want everyone in the room laughed here ever gonna room laughed they are he didn ' t I mean the guy was obviously . Seeming work . A guy who works a lot to document on the other 130000 people lost their job . I ' m jobs under Carly Fiorina and there were a host of other sentencing in Seattle and listen humbling and strangling . Are you know you know about humans know she didn ' t human reaction right after she understood the room at the same time it ' s how you come back after you laughed liking but that wasn ' t actually funny . We don ' t need to talk about violence whenever whatever your presidential candidate is . We in the game show what happened afterward she reprimanded them maybe she didn ' t get it out but it ' s also it ' s an adult government when adults that all and it ' s an off campus let ' s be fair . If somebody had set back to Donald Trump and he had left we ' d been . Grim reading . Yelled ripping him and you why you should and should not and in their act and she did not . She didn ' t she should ' ve stood up to him I ' m sorry happiness and actually we always talk about women standing up at her other women and so she ' s got to stand up for it really don ' t know I love Angela ask that if one of my favorite things is you and I think she should she was like one of the peoples he was . It was a light hearted thing and you had a . I know I know there ' s I ' m guard off guard Adam right now it ' s perfect . It didn ' t that we got out of us . Well I mean I I I now have to deal Michael . I have been saying that about so many people particularly women . That sometimes that no one we don ' t instruments and and strangled who met witness saw I am good in my company now it it . Because I wasn ' t time to talk about vows Torres women out of does spam on the continent result that would that aren ' t . So yes I am Margaret I want to get elevated I hope incentive that mom and you know . You Dominic eat it for this right yeah yeah . So yeah and yeah maybe he could sent something different . And he ' s a guy and maybe he should have known not to say strangled because it sounds like he wants to be up . I think is pretty pissed that we were talking about Harry and we plays and we all laughed . Yeah . Kiss him on the bus isn ' t a sport so many points in Seattle about the Santa Ana where an enemy lines then we need to automatic still since it sent any attention to have gone on what is and running out well who knows what we what is technically never know what does grow Napster you never know honey and sometimes we go sometime in what might some Tom go write like yeah .
