We begin this evening with the all out sprint to Iowa one month now until the first votes and New Hampshire of course shortly thereafter . Tonight here a decisive moment we ' ve Donald Trump doubling down on his belief Bill Clinton ' s past does matter . We hear from the former president himself . All eyes this Monday on the former president for the first time this campaign Bill Clinton on the trail by himself for his wife . So many wondering going in would he bring up trump . Our correspondent getting a moment with a masking is trump making a fair argument . We begin with the ABC Cecilia Vega . Bill Clinton kicking off when he sixteen in New Hampshire . It ' s got a scare this year taking some not so subtle jabs at a certain Republican front . Runner when there is discrimination against . African Americans or Hispanics . Or Muslims . Just because it they are I don ' t like that . But he didn ' t mention Donald Trump my name . Or trumps tactic of dredging up the former president ' s past sex scandals and the husband ' s one of the great abuses of the world gives me . So today I asked about trump . Donald Trump says your past is fair game I ' ve got to ask you you keep coming up on the trail with him his fair game . A long pause and then an answer . The Republicans have to decide if it were . I ' m trying to tell . Other Democrats in the country thank killer Peter that ' s . And I think there ' s always attempts . Thank you election away from . Or truck today not backing down . I think that you know Hillary it was a neighbor and a lot of things happened that work . You know obviously very seedy every he was impeached for heaven ' s sake . But fifteen years after leaving office Bill Clinton ' s popularity numbers are sky high much higher then his wife ' s . So yes she calls built her secret weapon especially in New Hampshire where both clintons have enjoyed political comebacks . I listened to you . And in the process . I found my own voice . This year New Hampshire is pivotal once again . The only state where Clinton trails Vermont senator Bernie Sanders and where she needs that not so secret secret weapon more than ever . And Cecilia Vega with us now live from New Hampshire tonight it ' s a silly you reporter there that the campaign . He ' s very happy were former president stands at his own popularity so how much more of President Clinton on his own will we see out there . Well David the former president just wrapped an event here in New Hampshire and it was a packed house and that is exactly what Hillary Clinton ' s campaign . An aide to thought . Tell me you can hear they ' re still wrapping up hearing aid to the former president telling me today that we can expect to see a lot more of Bill Clinton out on the campaign trail over the next few weeks to folding up the chairs right behind you how quickly they all move on Cecilia thank you .
