Turned out of the race for 2016 and Donald Trump doubling down tonight . Standing by his claim that he saw thousands cheering the building ' s coming down on 9 11 tonight also making news after saying he saw something else . Saying he saw workers that morning jumping from the Twin Towers from his own apartment window . But many asking with the smoke in the fact that his building is miles away how could he see people jumping . ABC ' s Tom numbness on the campaign trail and you ' ll hear from many voters tonight who say Trump ' s claims certainly don ' t bother them . Donald Trump taking this wave of what soared 9 11 to a new global I have a window in my apartment . That ' s specifically . Aimed at the world that ' s because of the unity of the whole . And I watched as people up . His penthouse in trump tower . Located in midtown Manhattan . Four miles from where the world traits that are once stood . Yet despite the distance and the smoke billowing around the Twin Towers trump says he was able to ST people jump . This is trumps second questionable claim about 9 11 this week earlier he said Muslims in New Jersey celebrated at the towers burned . When the world trade setter came tumbling down . And I watched in Jersey City pictures . Whip thousand . Thousands of people were cheering . He says he sought on television but no big deal has ever surfaced Jersey City officials say . Never happen but trump says other sought as well I start getting phone calls in my office I thought . Things that they want and they saw us take my . Spans lineup for hours sometimes to watch him speak say they don ' t think he ' s line . Do you hear little thing sometimes get back wrong word that nobody atom bomb him . I need to err is human and that you . But attorney intentionally . Tonight around these good hearted . As well but tonight from Hillary Clinton a much different view saying the Republican front runner tropics and prejudice and paranoia . And then you heard our report Donald Trump say he ' s been purely hundreds of phone calls from . From people who are also involved thousands of Muslims in New Jersey celebrating on 9 11 well we contacted the campaign it has to speak to some of those callers they have yet to get back .
