In the meantime , the FBI is treating the shootings as a possible terror attack . Investigators digging deep into the life of the husband and wife team . Brian Ross has the latest . Reporter : The FBI still won ' t officially call it a case of terrorism . Increasingly , law enforcement officials say the action leave little doubt about the aim of their mission . In the same San Bernardino townhouse where they were raising their infant daughter , Syed ma farook and his pakistani born wife , tashfeen malik , were preparing to go to war . Enough weapons to kill thousands of people . Some 6100 rounds . Their garage was a virtual bomb factory . With 1 unexploded bombs . Described as similar to this one featured in an Al Qaeda publication . All that in addition to this bomb . It used a yellow toy car as a remote control detonator . One neighbor was alarmed . They were doing a lot of work in the garage . And she was kind of suspicious . Reporter : But nobody called the police . They were equipped and could have continued to do another attack . Reporter : Farook had worked for five years at the county health department . The widow of one of those he murdered said there were no warning science . Is there they were all friends with the man who did this . They knew he was Muslim . They had no idea he had become radicalized . Reporter : They ' re travel and contacts are being monitored . Looking for evidence to what turned farook and his wife into killers . Agents went to the mosque he often attended . The Imam said he was questioned by authorities at gunpoint . He would not answer questions about farook but told ABC news he condemns all violence . The news of the shooting was shocking . Unbelievable . Unfathomable . Left us all speechless . It is an act that has we condemn as muslims . Reporter : Also left behind as the heavily armed couple head HD off in the rented SUV for a fatal showdown with police was their 6 month old daughter . They ' re unsure which daughter has custody of the orphaned little girl . Federal authorities tell ABC news the FBI is looking for connections between two specific individuals and farook . To see if they were involved in his radicalization or helping to plan the attacks . His massive arsenal would have cost thousands of dollars , fair amount of money for someone who takes home 700 a week . We ' re going to get more from Pierre Thomas . This couple did a lot to cover their tracks . Law enforcement officials say the suspected shooters did attempt a coverup . Mobile phones and hard drives were smashed or tampered with . FBI computer analysts will try to reconstruct what was destroyed . It will be difficult . Authorities fear this was an attempt to hide what the couple were viewing and who they had communicated with . This couple not on the FBI radar at all ? Sources say they had done nothing suspicious enough to come under serious FBI scrutiny . The FBI is poring over files to make sure nothing is missed . Now to the victims . All 14 innocent people killed at
