And this morning of course we are celebrating the legacy of martin Luther king Jr . With a special tribute from some very thoughtful grade school students . We have more on that . Good morning linsey . Good morning . What better way to celebrate martin Luther king Jr . Than through the eyes of our children . The Texas fourth and fifth graders who competed in the competition . When asked what the presidential campaign might look like what they came up with was remarkable . I may not get there with you . But I want you to know tonight that we as a people will get to the promised land ! His words moving a nation . That promise land inspiring generations . If Dr Martin Luther king Jr . Were to run for president today I believe he would say this in his speech . We are a nation of promised and a land of opportunity . My brothers and sisters , I challenge you to keep the dream alive and uplift one another . We have made progress in this 21st century but we have not overcome . There is more that must be done . White and black lives must matter . Hispanic lives must matter . Native and asian lives must matter . All lives must matter ! I am convinced that men hate each other because they fear each other . They fear each other because they don ' t know each other . They don ' t know each other because they don ' t communicate and they don ' t communicate because they are separated . Today ' s youth asking if king ' s message can build more bridges . I am if Dr King were running for president how would he treat me and my family just because religious pleas aren ' t the same . Everybody sees differences . We should all come together . All races . All cultures . If there was one thing our nation ' s kids would tell Dr King Thank you . Thank you for helping me be able to understand the right and the wrong things to do in our nation and our society today . Thank you for being a role model to me and all of the people around the United States of America . Thank you for everything . For making our world a better place . And one of the young Muslim girls that we heard from , her speech was spoken in air Bick saying you have to follow your dreams . The only way they will come true and that quote was her own , not his . Some kids were so profound and say they are inspired by Dr King , his dream certainly seems to live on with them . They have that same fire in their bell live and even the delivery was kind of like that rhythm that he had . It was amazing . You can tell the words are theirs . They feel it . Not only were they mimicking his speak pattern , you could see they understood exactly what they were saying they believed in . I thought that was fantastic . Goose bumps just watching it . It was in Houston and Dallas . It should be everywhere . Absolutely .
