Americans don t necessarily have to be directly affected by a major international news event to understand its relevance to their lives . Anyone who lived through the turmoil of Iran s revolution in 1978 , the ransacking of the U . S . Embassy in Tehran and the 444 day captivity of more than 60 American hostages should grasp the notion that we ignore international events at our peril . The prospect has loomed for years that Iran was getting close to building its own nuclear weapons , a scenario that Israel and Saudi Arabia viewed as a threat to their very existence . At the very least it would portend decades of unprecedented regional instability . With that in mind , President Barack Obama authorized a dual program of harsh international trade and banking sanctions against Iran along with negotiations to sharply curtail Iran s nuclear ambitions . The weekend yielded major dividends on those efforts with the release of five American prisoners in exchange for seven Iranians . Without the relationships built over the past 14 months of patient talks ? discussions that put limits on Iran s nuclear program in exchange for the lessening of sanctions ? that sort of exchange could not have happened . Mr Obama has endured years of harsh criticism . Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu excoriated the Iran negotiations in a rare speech to a joint session of Congress . Domestic critics warned that U . S . led international sanctions would have no effect on Tehran . The critics were wrong . That said , Iran s penchant for mischief making remains . It still supports an insurgency that has immersed Yemen in civil war . Iranian backed Hezbollah militiamen continue helping prop up Bashar Assad s bloody dictatorship in Syria ? contributing mightily to the refugee deluge that has caused political upheaval across Europe . And the nuclear deal , at best , only postpones rather than eliminates Iran s bomb making capability . As we know from the North Korean example , landmark nuclear arms accords can fall apart . Whereas North Korea has remained insular and distrustful of the outside world , Iran badly wants to re engage economically and bolster its status as a regional power . To ensure that the Iran deal doesn t sour as did the non proliferation treaty negotiated with North Korea in 1994 , international diplomacy with Iran must be sustained , regardless of who occupies the White House next year . So why should you care ? For one , it could affect your pocketbook . Iran is about to resume international oil exports under this deal , which means the price you pay at the pump is likely to continue plummeting . The opposite effect would likely occur if U . S . Iranian relations deteriorate again . The presidential campaign already includes lots of debate about Iran . Conservative candidates are pledging to scrap this deal and return America to its previous , confrontational posture . We know from the past decades of war in Iraq and Afghanistan exactly how costly military confrontation can be . In the absence of diplomacy , the prospect of war with Iran can only grow . This is where your vote ? your informed vote ? can make a big difference in what happens next with Iran .
