Democratic side now I a little remains very close . The newest polls showing Hillary Clinton barely edging out Bernie Sanders smiling overnight during that town hall but there was a moment . When a young voter asked her about dishonesty and you ' ll hear her answer . Meantime thirty Sanders was asked whether he would raise taxes he said yes with an explanation . ABC Cecilia Vega in Iowa were both sides acknowledge this is so close it could all come down to turnout . On stage she gave Bernie Sanders fired up and full of confidence we . People like and how they compliment that represent . Us not just I had a couple of billion . Offstage a reality check that frankly the book about his . Strong . It energized Hillary Clinton across the state with the pre caucus promise if you go to the caucus . On Monday night and stand up for me they ' re . I will work my heart out for you as your president . For both sides a last minute push to convince voters like Mary my ears you got his trailer in LE eight and now here and decided to back again why . So many issues . Had it not like having an effect again . Wears his hair in the last forum before Monday ' s big cock as one young voter confronting Hillary Clinton handled online third . From quite a few people riots that they think you ' re dishonest . But I ' d like to hear from you . And why you field the enthusiasm isn ' t there . Look I ' ve been around a long time people have thrown all kinds of things at me . But if you ' re new to politics if it ' s the first time you ' ve really paid attention you go oh my cash . Look at all of this and you have to save yourself why hey are they throwing all of that while tell you why . Because I ' ve been on the front lines of change and progress since I was your age . And Bernie Sanders which this suspicion about his health care plan we will raise taxes yes we well . We may raise taxes . But we are also going . To eliminate prior period health insurance premiums for individuals and for business . At a candidates are now in a race to crisscrossed this state Hillary Clinton will have campaign stops in Iowa every day through Monday . At the end of the week she brings in the reinforcements David bill and Chelsea .
