And in the race for the White House Donald Trump lashing out against a reporter he ' s done that before but this time appearing to law that reporter for a disability . Tonight the video and what trump is saying about it now . Here ' s ABC Sicily Avaya . It ' s being called a new low even for Donald Trump . The presidential front runner in South Carolina this week up hearing tomorrow eight disabled journalist and other book I gotta see this guy I don ' t know what eyes at all . That reporter the New York Times is search Coppola ski who has a chronic condition affecting his joints that limits flexibility in his arms . Tonight the New York Times firing back . Saying we ' re outraged that he would ridicule the physical appearance of one of our reporters . It came as trump defended his claim that he saw people in New Jersey cheering on 9 11 . Law enforcement and government officials now rejecting that as false . But this is hardly the first time trump has come under fire for offending someone . From Mexicans . They ' re bringing drugs . They ' re bringing crime . They ' re raped this . Two veterans . Is that the war here I like people who weren ' t captured Ocalan to women . You call women you don ' t like fat pigs only Rosie O ' Donnell . I don ' t know what eyes at all I don ' t ask . Trump not backing down this time they ' re saying he was merely mimicking a cluster reporter tweeting . If mr . Coble a ski is handicap I would not know because I do not know why he looks like . That was from today to Hewitt joins us sunset and to see Lee get another tweet from trump . Yeah that ' s right he says that the reporter is using his disability to grandstand and is demanding now . An apology from the New York Times asked for not knowing that reporter search couple ST . He says he covered truck for years and in an interview with the Washington Post couple ASCII says he is short term remembers him and his condition Tom . Trump staying in the headlines always right to Celia thank you .
