Okay topping our skating headlines this morning did newest Hollywood couple . And it is confirmed when step body and Blake Shelton officially dating both music stars spent the summer on the cover of tabloids went . They announce their respective marriages were ending and since then . The voice co hosts have been spending a lot of time together and yesterday erupt for Stefani confirmed to ABC news that the two yup . The RD dating so a big congrats to that . I ' m into the speculation that they wanted to know . The and the news was all the buzz last night at the CMA awards yet because both of course Blake Shelton was there and his acts . Veranda Lambert was in the house as well but obviously not together . Her at a rapped out onstage . Two won for best female vocalist but before that cohost Carrie Underwood and Brad Paisley . Lee is an awkward tension and make a joke . He can ' t ignore the break up that really rocked our world the one that ' s on everybody ' s not . Two people in this very room whom we all know and love them . Is it mere . Does he not look . We ' ll Kermit miss EPB . Wants to know that we let you ballot and we just like you to be . Happy yes . On a completely . Unrelated topic . Patty Blake . Love love . And . Rated good the show started and given the elephants in the room I ' ll face . Get it out there it is so besides the jokes there was plenty of music Alia and awards to be handed out Luke Bryan . Well he ' s a man of the year entertainer of the year ad that makes two years in a row for the superstar and the big surprise of the night Chris Stapleton . Winning for best new artist . Male vocalist of the year and best new album the pull up backup singer for Kentucky from Kentucky Brian on Tennessee native Justin Timberlake dissing his hit Tennessee whiskey . Added . And he followed that up with Justin Timberlake spring heat wave pictures of groups . Hot work cutting hair download this white . Focus Australian actress and comedian rebel Wilson is the sect many of you . She is not a fan of the card actions . Wilson whose best known for her character fat Amy from its perfect . Just love her brand new plus size fashion line but she ' s also reveals something about some other famous fashion meets this turns out rattle was asked by MTV to present with . Kendall and Kylie Jenner at the music video music awards she said no she explained why and Steve bring you an Osce rate show . Nothing you hate any of them individually . At this something meant what I stand for is totally against what I and floss . Slice it safe clean and they keep official and then it ' s not really bakery that really banked on talents . Individually she doesn ' t hate them but collectively it . Wilson did admit that there quote super popular but explain that she ' s more into personality and working hard for success so . Shots are fired between the ladies there . And finally this idiot tennis superstar turned right fighter Serena Williams she spent her life spreading up and out tennis courts around the globe to reigning . She came in handy on Tuesday . OK so get that she was sitting in a restaurant for cellphone . On the chair next to her when someone stole it and took off . She jumped up and quickly chased him down earning a standing ovation in the restaurant . As she also posted this photo of her looking like super girl calling herself super arena . Apprehend . Parting words for . From this new crime fighting crusader would you saying just because you ' re leading don ' t be afraid to step up to any challenge . Even she took off . Her parents I would never messed Serena Williams you know how much she spent getting ready getting in shape . It was minor incidents but it ' s truth to cut of that but I upgrade murder by news coverage you can afford another went up .
