Former New York mayor Mike Bloomberg is considering a run club president . Right now as he does this I mean losing her help is that the Republicans and Democrats are we beyond that now . Can I heard Bernie it ' s gonna hurt the Democrats in my opinion what I think . Liking you know we got Bloomberg who ' s like a pragmatic moderate but if if he ends up with tweet want to he ' s gonna wait laughter the primary to make sure that its crew are knickers Bernie Sanders he I don ' t think oh run . If it ' s Hillary and so if you have truckers Huskers are trump purses . Fanny Burney . I think it ' s interesting that Bloomberg thinks there ' s a place for a moderate . In in can ' t I mean here sex but Larry King is if you eat the popular if the parties are saying these are two best candidates is there a place . For Bloomberg in this particular connect never Bennett independent I think I think that makes him so interesting is that he was a Republican and any became a Democrat and then he became an independent . But I think I think you ' re right I think it hurts children most but I think there it is he could persuade some voters like you because he ' s a fiscal conservative embodies you know a social liberal . The people they don ' t like trump . And that that still consider themselves and identify as a conservative but he ' s got to make this decision . After Super Tuesday that ' s when he ' s gonna find out march 1 and also so they can get on the ballot as an independent all fifty states asked why that first week in March . And is it just needs a billion here billion here billionaire I think that he ' s made in tribal culture . Court yet to see me I don ' t need to travel change to have hot enough . Yeah . I ' m sure it ' s from Michael Bloomberg Ralph Nader . Ralph Nader win at W was running against gore back in whenever that was 2001 I guess what 2000 . Nader took a lot of votes away from Al Gore . He didn ' t take those votes away from bush so this could happen again an independent takes votes away from one of the parties in this case it will be that Democrats I think .
