It was a solemn night in San Bernardino . Thousands came together for a candle light vigil to remember the victims and their families . Amy , you saw that sadness up close . It is sad . It is maddening to continue to have to cover stories like this so many times this year alone . But in the past several years specifically . Yet , every time you hear from the witnesses , about what they felt , what they saw , the panic , the fear . The terror . It really is still unthinkable . Completely unthinkable . So many did come together to honor the 14 people killed . Fathers , mothers , husbands , and wives . All killed in this tragedy . And overnight , we have learned more about the killer couple as well . A husband and wife , dressed to kill . They opened fire at a holiday gathering for county health workers . A search of their home turned up weapons , a dozen pipe bombing and a huge cache of weaponry . We have team coverage . David , we are learning much more about what the investigators found in the killers ' home . In fact a chilling portrait this morning . Overnight , a new look at not only what they were carrying with them in the SUV , but as you point out , inside their home . This was a massive arsenal . Certainly large enough to carry out another attack . Just as I sat down with one of farook ' s co workers . They sat at desks together for years . He thought he was a friend . He sat with him at the table that morning . This morning , a closer look at the most revealing images yet of theletle weapons used in the deadly shooting rampage . Investigators searching the home of the two alleged killers , Syed farook , and his wife , tashfeen malik . Several down in the conference room . Reporter : New video released of the police chase . Oh , they ' re after somebody . Reporter : The blk SUV in frame . Police in close pursuit . Hundreds of gunshots echoed through the streets . Oh , they ' re killing that guy . Reporter : Investigator I Sas , while farook was driving , his wife was firing out the window of the car . The suspects are believed to have fired about 75 rifle rounds at the officers at the termination of the pursuit . Reporter : Overnight , what it was like in the conference hall . Extremely loud . The fire alarms were going off . There were people obviously injured . And obviously in great amounts of pain . And , that was evident in the moans and the wails that we were hearing in the room . Reporter : Spoke with Patrick Baccari , a co worker , who shared a cubicle with Syed farook for years . You have the same title ? Similar . Discussed similar things . I thought I made a connection with him talking about preparing cars and things like that . Asked him some of his experiences , things like that . Reporter : That was how you got him to open up ? Talking about cars ? I would greet him and I wouldn ' t get anything back . It ' s like you ' re trying to initiate conversation . And it just doesn ' t perpetuate or get anywhere . Reporter : Baccari ' s life was spared because he wept to the restroom just as the killers were about to enter the room . H shots came through the wall . I get hit with a blast . I don ' t know what it is . I thought the paper towel dispenser was booby trapped . Reporter : It blows up in your face . You look in the mirror . I see I ' m bleeding . Reporter : He tries to send a text to his wife . We ' re hearing the gunfire take place . I ' m trying to contact my wife and tell her I love her and that I ' m okay . Reporter : He could only type out two words . It said gunman attacked . I didn ' t connect it . I didn ' t know what was going on . I tried to reach him . I couldn ' t get through . Reporter : This is the text here ? Yes . Gunman attacked . That ' s all you could get out . Overnight here , a vigil honoring the victims . There were thousands at that vigil . The entire list of the victims released overnight as they were gathering to honor and mourn their faces , their names . I should share one more thing that co worker Patrick shared with us . He was inside this center at the table with him . He did notice that when it was time to take the annual Christmas photo , farook was missing . He thought nothing of it until the gunfire gain blasting through the wall . It was awhile later until he heard the name Syed . He still couldn ' t believe it . You ' ll be back later in the
