Donald Trump has been trashing Hillary Clinton for bringing her husband on the campaign trail . And bill was just asked about this field trip cracked the cars laden Cecilia rig ABC correspondent Cecelia mega take a look . Donald Trump says your past is fair game I ' ve got to ask you you keep coming up on the trail with him his fair game . The Republicans after this or . I ' m trying to tell . Now the Democrats in the country thank you be the best president . I think there ' s always attempts . Thank election away from people . Sound editing really answer question one know what went why should I buy I felt like your true politician . Well yeah what we simply indicating that that they do you think I mean they yeah I don ' t have to look that we ' re a forgive me he ' s always says they only way says may and I ' m . It isn ' t a bit of a campaign issue at the moment because she ' s Hillary is in a quandary in my opinion . Because she ' s talking about violence against women sexual harassment all that stuff and her husband . Has a checkered past let ' s put it to put it mildly so she isn ' t apply not he ' s not . Perpetrated violence against women act there there are RA stations there six it ' s right there accusation there accusations but there are three women claim that he did things and that they didn ' t want one of them is Paula Jones yes Juanita Broderick Kathleen Willey and they say that he they ' re exposed himself . Did them rape them or groped them and the . Three act you did newest Hillary running for president doesn ' t have an idyllic well it all he in the night doesn ' t it number tonight all of it puts her in about how the other hand I ' ve been out . On the other hand . It ' s our policies that really matter what Republicans have voted against the violence against women act . Now back to me is more important that anything that Bill Clinton did or didn ' t to be caught it ' s what she ' s going to vote for how she ' s gonna leave the country that matters more than back . It ' s pathetic and he isn ' t not let ' s say Elsa affect you stand by your man in time of crisis and all the drama that he went into his own pregnancy shows her own streets presidency I . I right now is ready . Well and he accused yeah . A lot of it on her competition with the first wine to bring up Tron think call him sexist against women and you know . That truck hit even harder actually gets attacked . He goes back yeah yeah and yeah rank . He she was not the first want to bring it options not the first president Burnett apps and yet he does said that he had a pension is that says she is not the first person to bring up trumps . No disrespect women that ' s warm on sat in . I ' m an exceptionally hot writer so it matter when it doesn ' t it doesn ' t matter because she ' s not the first president to say this and it is . Quite clear that he has been to suspect when asked what went . Now if we had to take this scenario . Does that mean certain presidents would not have got elected because their wives were alcoholic . That ' s exactly that ' s what Kimberly that is an that is I think it about us caring hands what she ' s she ' s acting this thing . Only . What part of our panel so the fact is if you ' re not a looking to anybody else ' s ass yes . Spouses and does it and she ' s staying married to her husband she ' s stay imagine not dying here also now have had three wives . Do we need not I ' m not gonna flawed because it ' s not it ' s not an indictment but once you open that door are . What do you know way . What you want do what you Donald Trump . Is doing that ' s all that should be Mac doesn ' t matter what her husband did it doesn ' t matter what you why did all where she ' s from what what any and Boeing ' s on the secondary folks have I would secondary but what . Not the winds are now first husband ' s a winner whenever that area have united has not gonna do when Matt this is about what you ' re gonna do for the congress . Timid she has a problem because at people when she didn ' t leave him . They said she was an enable if she leaves him and she ' s abandoning her family so a woman isn ' t it very difficult position when her husband cheats on half . Really why don ' t because you have children you have a family you don ' t want to just breaks opponents . Well he ' s another case so he ' s . I ' m talk about what went theirs . But there is that there is frequent dance the quantity or talk yeah . The doubles I do want to tell you something like I totally understand bring I think where you ' re coming from two is that it ' s like the pot calling the kettle black when trump responds to exited a sex is up . I do want to mention the Paula Jones and embed with with Bill Clinton they did saddleback and the civil suit by I think it ' s just . It it ' s a danger to Hillary and terms and possibly discrediting her with women we hear about Hillary relating to women and when you have all these accusations of your husband . It it could potentially I was . Beach just what is it you don ' t . Remember trial and my crazy Italian right you know what you rent and they take you to testify that U I you cannot act does not enough . It ' s not . And I get what you ' re saying that when their are accusations of sexual assault and you ' re gonna go out on the campaign Trout and how victims to come forward . And and you ' re not trying to necessarily write your own husbands aside I think that ' s where I didn ' t know that we don ' t know what I don ' t think we know what she addressed she could ' ve . Worked his behind behind a we don ' t know what Hillary tonight but she ' s still standing by that person and she still fighting for and the in the under option again and it also . And here we act a childish looking into this other person ' s life just because it ' s right here is it ' s happening for the first time in our history every every every find ways and bring her . How people have to understand his policy . I had a Teddy Kennedy and Chappaquiddick might illness oldest person brought out that taffeta and hit a girl grounds and he abandoned terror if any drowned anti women still voted to Teddy Kennedy why can ' t . Yeah because he voted for women ' s rights that ' s why . That ' s the bottom line of it in my opinion I mean I don ' t like either one of them say the truth Teddy or bell . But their bulk dogs as far as I ' m concerned but I still will vote for Bill Clinton . Not so hot and extraordinary I high approval rating he ' s that I saw . Lot of people country still love them at 56 approval ratings slash this is all I ' m gonna saint leave the spouses allowed . And has been and get leave the spouses along because I gotta tell you . We don ' t know what ' s in anybody ' s backyard and whenever families are dealing with a nation have the right to deal with it . Amongst themselves out of Roosevelt put up for the yeah . Yeah I say the thousands are fair game but you gotta leave the children who wound up now espouses and not fair game because of what we read that yeah .
