Now to 2016 and the race to the white house . Saying this is a big week for the democratics , is an understatement . Bernie sanders strutting their stuff at an influential dinner at Des Moines . David Wright has the very latest . Hi , David . Reporter : Hi , Paula , Hillary Clinton ' s enjoying a bit of a star turn here in Des Moines , introduced by two rock stars as you said , Katy Perry and bill Clinton , but this is not a coronation , it ' s clear that Bernie sanders wants to take that crown . Hillary Clinton brought out the big guns including a pop star dressed like a superhero . Note you ' re a firework ? Reporter : And former president now campaigning to be the first ever first husband . I have never been the warmup act for Katy Perry before . Reporter : This was bill Clinton ' s debut on the campaign trail for his wife . Katy Perry ' s debut standing up for the Clinton campaign . I stand and I March with Hillary . Reporter : And lending her voice , too . ? Reporter : At the Iowa Jefferson Jackson dinner , Hillary Clinton did roar . We ' re going to build an America where a father can tell his daughter , you can be anything you want to , including president of the United States of America ! Reporter : But she doesn ' t quite have the nomination locked down . Senator , everybody ' s saying it ' s all over , did you not get the message ? Just seven points behind her in Iowa , Bernie sanders is still on the March . This is a March which will end up in a year when you ' ll join me in the white house . Reporter : At the Katy Perry concert , message feel the Bern . Clearly Bernie sanders does not plan to go gently into that good night . 99 days until the Iowa caucuses and it ' s going to be a tough fight , but it ' s Hillary Clinton ' s to lose now Dan . For more on the race to the white house let ' s bring in George stephanopoulos who will be hosting this " This week " later this morning . Let ' s talk about the republicans for a second . You have Donald Trump on the show this morning . One of the things that we have seen this weekend , he ' s stepping up his attacks on Dr Ben Carson . He ' s going after Carson in the latest Iowa poll , Carson has pulled ahead of Donald Trump even though trump leads nationally . Trump actually questioned Ben Carson ' s religion . I don ' t know about that . We ' ll ask about Donald Trump about it . This morning , these are the two front runners . Bernie sanders taking on Hillary Clinton as a candidate of polls not principals . That ' s exactly the attack that worked for Barack Obama at that same dinner back in 2007 . We ' ll talk about that this morning . George , thank you . I want to remind everybody , George has a big show this morning , he ' ll be going one on one with Donald Trump , later this morning on " This week " right here on ABC . George , thanks again .
