Next , to the investigation to the downing of that Russian passenger jet in Egypt . The bomb theory strengthening tonight . New intelligence claiming that Isis may have infiltrated that airport . And the bodies of some of those buried this weekend , found with shrapnel . Here ' s Brian Ross . Reporter : Aviation security officials tonight say there is new evidence that what happened here was likely an inside job . That Isis recruited someone with access to the ramp at the sharm el sheikh airport to plant a bomb on the Russian jet . With investigators this weekend scrutinizing airport surveillance videos and employee records for a possible suspect . Congressman Adam Schiff is one of eight members of congress to receive a classified briefing on the investigation . Isis may have concluded that the best way to defeat airport defenses is not to through them but to go around them with the help of somebody inside . Reporter : U . s . Authorities tell ABC news that electronic intercepts of Isis , both before and after the crash , indicated that Isis was in communication with someone at the sharm el sheikh airport . If this is a bomb by the affiliate of Isis in the sinai , Isis has now fully eclipsed Al Qaeda as the gravest terror threat in the world . Reporter : As more of the 224 Russian victims were buried this weekend in St . Petersburg , officials said shrapnel wounds were discovered in several of the bodies , another indication that the plane was brought down by an explosive device . On Saturday , Egyptian officials said the cockpit voice recorder , the cvr , captured a distinct but undetermined noise just before it stopped working . A noise was heard in the last seconds of the cvr recording . Reporter : U . s . Experts say it will be possible , and quickly to determine if that noise was a bomb , and if so , where it was placed . But that hasn ' t happened yet . As of tonight , senior U . S . Officials say that FBI experts have not been asked to join the investigation on the ground . Hopefully soon we ' ll know what the noise was . That ' s right .
