Let me ask zoning because I Hillary Clinton was on TV now with a big Ghazi hearings for eleven hours she wiped the floor with them in my opinion . Job . There was so me . Next attack when you ' ve been so nice to have with the the debates and everything but Mike tiny be of the Rolling Stone said this you can ' t put a price on the ad the Republicans gave Hillary Thursday I think that one of the White House . How do you respond to that . Well look it is we have right now in the yet about happy to say this we 88 . Very right wing extremist Republican Party this is not the body of Dwight David Eisenhower . But not all like that well too many of them all and have too many of them really well and you just heard banging Carlson ' s statement . He ' s not a French I think I ' m afraid it ' s not really joy I wish I could tell you got Abscam haven ' t been around congress to balance after argues that buyers who basically believe this is there were John the moralists huge tax breaks . For the wealthiest people is country . Cuts to Social Security Medicare and Medicaid federal aid to education virtually all home or against the woman ' s right to choose . But very few of them support gay rights right of getting people to marry that is . There were job it is an extra . Are we I didn ' t have a negation personal Texas and it ' s not your style but over the weekend you did say some stuff about Hillary thank you implied that she was . A flip flop or do you think that you are able to make those tough political decisions that she can ' t . I do I don ' t play one on if you look back at my political history . All I was elected mayor of Burlington Vermont . In 1981 . I had to take on the whole political establishment . And the way we did it . Is we brought people into the process we opened the bulls and symbol into view is we almost doubled voter turnout . OK and we elected progressive people who was standing up we got a whole lot to transform that city . When I was elected in to the congress in 1990 . I had to deal with trade issues . And yet all of corporate America alone and in fact the Clinton administration the chamber hold these trade agreements on great while I said no to them . And it turns out that I was right we have seen the loss of tens of thousands of factories in America millions of decent paying trust one other example . 1996 . Dre wins it will have an hour show Barney . Ozal called . Just less well in 96 I got . Oh my god . Now we ' ll save diagnostic lab elephant management . You recently spoke about one and all Americans to have a forty hour work week which I think it ' s fantastic . I knew even brought up before about the republicans ' idea of family values vs you where is he tells little bit about . So lacing look when Republicans talk about semifinalists this is what this thing . And this is what you guys were just talking about a moment north look you know what you heard right on the head . And that is their Finley values is that no woman in America should of the right to control robotic . They have family values are that if you aug gay . You should not have the legal right . Tamara that ' s definitely about personal wiped out if I was opt . Is that if you are com and you have a baby . You have the right to stay home with paid family and medical leave for at least three months house that had .
