And on the eve of the big republican debate , it ' s not just trump and Carson battling it out . Jeb bush and Marco Rubio . Bush , one of Rubio ' s mentors . They are now being forced to fight it out themselves . In fact , during a presentation in a closed door meeting with Jeb bush supporters , the bush team revealing what they ' re now calling Marco Rubio . ABC ' s chief white house correspondent Jonathan Karl . Reporter : Jeb bush used to talk about Marco Rubio like a proud father . I ' m so proud of his enthusiasm . I ' m so proud of his eloquence . And I ' m so proud that he will be part of a next generation of leaders that will restore America . Reporter : Now bush has come to see rube yoel as target number one . His main competition to becoming the alternative to outsiders trump and Carson . He ' s hammered him for missing senate votes . If congressmen and women are elected to serve , they actually ought to show up and vote . Reporter : And that presentation to big donors flatly declared Marco as a G . O . P . Obama , the ultimate fighting words in a republican primary . For his part , Rubio has suggested his former mentor is part of the past . I ' m going to continue to focus on what I think our country needs to do and why it is I think we need to elevate a new generation of leadership . Reporter : Fighting with his former friend and protege is perhaps another reason Jeb bush sounds so disgusted with the race . Ill got a lot of really cool things they could do other than sit around being miserable , listening to people demonize me and me feeling come peopled to demonize them . That is a joke . Elect trump if you want that . And Jon Karl with us live here in New York . Always great to have you here on the set with us . We want to show everyone at home another poll out tonight . And this one is on the democratic side . It shows Hillary Clinton with a commanding lead now in Iowa , 61 points ahead of Bernie sanders . Does this mean the only state where she ' s not leading is new Hampshire ? Reporter : That ' s right . We haven ' t seen a poll in new Hampshire since the benghazi hearings . But sanders had been looking like he could actually beat Hillary Clinton in both Iowa and New Hampshire the first two states . Now , once again , she ' s looking like the prohibitive front runner in Iowa and nationally . But David , we saw this in 2008 and the beginning of this campaign . What happens when she becomes the all out front runner . Jon Karl , thank you .
