Napoli hit it up and how might this morning and another big night behind . Yes can you believe it another awards show as the season and it took a giant step closer to the Oscars of course with last night ' s critics ' choice awards . Spotlight took home three trophies including best picture best ensemble . And best original screenplay obvious that we you know so good but as big winner last night was that not feeling well how would it . Awards including best director and . I think he ' s OK so best actors the winners includes presumed Oscar favorite Leo right there for the resident and brie Larson . We ' re the room but easily stealing the show last night was nine year old . Jacob trap play accepting his award for best . Super cool off . Outflow punchy my parents can ' t love and very nice . An ano I don ' t think . And she ' ll Fred senate Marines found . Very clear . Really stormy . Many meaning candidacy that his dad as the hottest police officers all of Vancouver pool that group . Right here you can see yet it but if hopeful about . Barry to the Oscars now and fresh criticism from African American actors over the lack of diversity of this year ' s class nominees last week academy president Cheryl Boone Isaacs . Expressed her disappointment now . Some of the Hollywood heavyweights are weighing in as well actress Jada Pinkett Smith wife of actor Will Smith to face up . Question whether people of color should refrain from participate in the Oscars . Together and this is pretty funny this is how Oscar host comedian Chris Rock tweeting out and Oscar promo captioning the videos saying . The white BET awards . But next putting it all on the table with its . OK so it ' s been what like a month now since Harvey famously announced the wrong miss universe winner . And he since tried to apologize to us miss Colombia was saying . Was giving him the cold shoulder weeks we ' ll now he ' s set to sit down with both miss Colombia every every every Abdullah . Good dictators and the real winner this philippines ' . Yeah indeed I think . To see my mom thinking thank you can ' t wait reveal that illustrated . That interview a two day special airs tomorrow today and tomorrow on Harvey ' s syndicated . Time talk show at least passing blocked . And let ' s say happy birthday to our favorite non age and area and actress this Betty White . Yesterday white turn nothing 84 years old and she ' s still in the show again in an NFL themed TV ad for a bandwagon dot net . Which she stars with comedian rob nickel . This year bandwagon dot net is not only helping fans out crack staff is also fighting boutique for coaches and free agents . Actually motorbike they still haven ' t finally . Apple is crickets . Don ' t worry gears up put the whom reportedly Jerry Jones . Unseemly to order swingers party . It truly is turning then . Well I don ' t know lawman is not vote for Obama Yossi until . Dealers and I ' m not touching help . Since this guy he is strictly a gritty right at as a rigorous and part living your act .
