Ginger , thank you . From weather to security , if you head out to the parade organization malls you may see a pronounced police presence . This even though president Obama is personally trying to reassure a nervous America that despite what happened over in Paris there is no specific terror threat here this holiday weekend . ABC ' s gio Benitez is at the parade here in New York City , gio , good morning to you . Reporter : Hey , Dan , good morning to you and happy Thanksgiving . We ' re here at the start of that parade route . We ' re talking about 3 million spectators expected here . 8 , 000 participants . 2500 law enforcement officers , the NYPD saying it is taking no chances . It ' s the last thing we want to think about , but this morning law enforcement officers across the country are on high alert as Americans set out to celebrate the holidays . We got to be on our toes . Reporter : In New York City a record breaking crowd expected at the massive Macy ' s Thanksgiving day parade . A city already buzzing with counterterrorism units now upping its efforts with new specialized teams and extra security . Officers hiding in plainclothes . Others called the elite Hercules team armed with long guns and bomb enoughing canines and 500 heavily armed officers from a new critical response unit . They are even using radiation detectors looking for dirty bombs . Keep everybody safe . Reporter : Just weeks after the terror attacks in Paris , so called soft targets like malls and retailers are heeding the warnings too . Ahead of black Friday , Minnesota ' s famed mall of America adding extra security , some officers you ' ll see , some you won ' t . Homeland security secretary jeh Johnson says while across the board people are taking extra precautions It should be obvious to the public that there ' s a heightened presence in places like here like union station here , at airports . Reporter : He insists don ' t live in fear . But be vigilant and be aware . Reporter : And back here in New York City , we ' re told that the secretary of homeland security wants to take a look at security here on the parade route . We ' re told even he may personally speak with law enforcement here . Lara , Dan . All right , thank you . Good advice , just be aware . Don ' t live in fear but be vigilant . Thanks so much . We turn to Chicago , a city on
