Thanksgiving also means big parades in many cities including right here New York . Wouldn ' t believe the balloons are released star attraction that started blowing and they are ahead it ' s a tradition here and they are hovering just a few blocks from . Where we are right now ready to fly this morning and we sent our very special correspondent . He ' s in the creative show us what it takes to make them take flight . Wake up world news now view her as high fat it ' s Lisa McRee your first world news now hangar full of New York Governor Brown I ' m Lisa McRee . Back here . On this gorgeous fall day in New York City and watched the blowing up of the islands have been Macy ' s Thanksgiving Day in her . Now viewers . The moraine . So had these elite athletes their best balloon wranglers in the world you know lots of their big job tonight . I know that ' s what they ' re wondering . What is the perfect balloon Wrangler needy she and eggs and see you pay instantly in and you may did good and the food as a just south of the best food ever eaten nothing that like . Reindeer means absolutely . All ball dropped right exactly what he ' s got about being . In the cold in the middle of the night 130 New York street begins real unlike about the golden . Game . Until you . There are different environment they don ' t get paid any money partner offers partners knew what they get paid can ' t play silly and donuts . Isn ' t he added . He wants your pain remotely . Your favorite . His suit whereas I once on the day . Didn ' t know what you won the won the dog witnesses are . It now . Kelly even classic literature or think commercial for insurance . And this is going to be on ABC news . Gramm how much does big . Probably not what we certainly see here . So that ' s it from the 2015 . Macy ' s Thanksgiving Day parade staging area and believe in place back to you can listen marina . At happy Thanksgiving everyone . All . They fat happy Thanksgiving Day average so great I haven ' t heard back . I you know why she ' s alleged and did you ever know that they eat chili . And takes just . I didn ' t know that but I did notice a line of port of bodies . And our west so . All explains . About me but when we come back Hollywood a Lister who ' s headed up to here was politics since it was available . And someone is and I need the music of my favorite rap collective . Stay tuned escape on then .
