Now to the other developing headline tonight the plane crash mr . Reid the Russian passenger jet falling out of the sky over Egypt killing all 224 . On board . No distress call simply breaking apart . Tonight here are three main theories now emerging and the Kremlin saying don ' t rule out terrorism America ' s top spot now saying don ' t rule out prices . New clues in the debris across eight square miles of desert . Haunting images a mountain of luggage there the whole cracked open victim ' s cell phones ringing in the aftermath . ABC ' s Alex Moore port on the ground in Egypt . The vast desert now littered with charred wreckage and signs of the victims a child ' s shoe and passports . Tonight new mystery swirling around what brought the plane down just today the US not denying the possibility of terrorism . After crisis linked group claimed responsibility . Does license have the ability to shoot down an airliner . It ' s . Unlikely but I wouldn ' t rule it out . The flight full of tourists took off at 6 AM on Saturday from Sharm el Sheikh Egypt for Saint Petersburg Russia . Before boarding the parents of ten month old to read it remote posting a photo of her with the caption passenger in chief . This father and daughter smiling as they walked up the steps after reaching 31000 . Feet when he three minutes after take off . It disappeared from radar . With no distress call . Authorities agreed the large debris field each square miles means that the plane broke up in the air and not on the ground . But why three main theories emerging first a missile . No this hasn ' t been ruled out intelligence officials say militants in the area are known to have weapons they can reach that high . A bomb on board the Kremlin today not ruling out some type of terrorism . Through the use them and the airline metro jet insisting today that external influences to blame not technical failure or pilot error . But mechanical or structural failure remain a strong possibility seems husband who split the co pilot ' s ex wife telling Russian TV yet complained about the plane statements even on the morning of the crash records also show that in 2001 the plane ' s tail hit the runway . Known as a tail strike . Today many of the bodies arrived in Russia . The parents of 29 year old Rahman Leon off who ' s on vacation with his girlfriend . Weeping before they went to the morgue there couldn ' t move now his mother said we don ' t understand the point of living . The black boxes recovered from the crash site are said to be in good condition but one Egyptian aviation officials said today that the results of the investigation . Could take up to a year . David . Outsmart court tonight Alex thank you when you heard Alex report there the two black boxes recovered in good condition that ' s encouraging . So let ' s bring in ABC news aviation consultant retired colonel Steven Gagnon tonight and Steve . We reported no distress call but if the black boxes are in good condition what might they reveal what a way . Well David if a bomb goes off that ' s going to be heard in the cockpit they ' ll hear the actual sound or the airplane comes apart they ' ll hear the rushing of the air and be able differentiate between the two a real difference in the sounds recorded on the cockpit recorder and you were telling me . The plane nearly broke into coming apart at its strongest part of the plane how rare is that . It ' s extremely rare David if you look at the pictures of the debris on the ground this airplane broke literally in half which is why this remain such a mystery tonight . Right Stephen Gagnon with a .
