The latest on the investigation into the San Bernardino massacre . Focus on Enrique Marquez , the childhood friend and neighbor who bout the rifles the killers used and made some ominous comments to friends weeks before the attacks . ABC ' s chief investigative correspondent Brian Ross is tracking the case . Brian , the hunt for possible accomplices is pretty intense right now That ' s true . This morning the FBI , that ' s a big issue particularly because authorities say Syed farook as long as four years ago was trying to hide the fact that he had that friend buy him two high powered assault rifles . It ' s one of the many pieces of evidence of how long and well this terror attack was planned . Authorities have now put the mother of Syed farook , rafia , on the U . S . Terror watch list . Days after the father , zisi Syed Sr . Was put on the list . She was put on the list to make sure she does not try to leave the country . All this as officials continue to investigate who may have helped the terror couple in their attack . One week ago today . But as a new photo emerged from inside that conference room , moments before the attack , the presentation of the employee of the year award , authorities say Syed farook and tashfeen malik had plenty of help getting their money and their guns all lined up . Authorities say 24 year old Enrique Marquez , a punk rock fan , convert to Islam and close friend of farook has admitted he bought the guns for farook and did so officials say because farook did not want his name to be on file in connection with such serious weapons . That was almost four years ago . Mrs Marquez Reporter : Marquez ' s mother would not talk about the investigation but on a Facebook post the night of the attack Marquez wrote I ' m very sorry , guys . It was a pleasure . The next day he checked himself into a mental facility . Friends believe he may have known something about the plot in advance . He says something along the lines of there ' s a lot of muslims in our own backyard just ready to go haywire and attack and we didn ' t think nothing of it . Reporter : Law enforcement officials tell ABC news this morning that even though farook and his wife tried to destroy their cell phones and computers , authorities have now recovered some information including images of othering its the couple might have been planning to attack . Robin . Brian , thank you . For more let ' s bring in former FBI special agent brad Garrett and pick up on what Brian was saying about other possible attack points . Where do investigators go from there . The real key are there other players and are they about to launch an attack ? If you think about it , if he ' s had these weapons for three to four year , that means he ' s been thinking about this for a period of time . The big concern , is there an attack they can ' t stop yet . Having those guns for that amount of time and apparently going to great lengths to hide the ownership . Exactly . Goes to mind set . Goes to he was thinking about doing something years ago but for whatever reason it culminated last week . Marquez , people want to know , are there others out there that could have aided both of them . I think it ' s likely only because to pull off an attack like this , it ' s maybe even planned for maybe a long time you have to get help . Somebody had to teach you to shoot , build pipe bomb , et cetera . Investigators really want to get at the root of what inspired them or who inspired them . Exactly because that may lead you to other people . Is there an Anwar awlaki type person that inspired them out there . We ' ll move on to the problem
