Let ' s talk to Donald Trump . Mr Trump , thank you for joining us by phone today . Sounds like you ' re ready to tee off on Ben Carson tonight . No , not at all . We ' ll see what happens . It ' ll be loose and flexible . I have no idea what ' s going to happen but it will be interesting . As we ' ve seen in Tom ' s piece right there , some of parts of Carson ' s story are starting to check out . When I talked to him on Sunday he said you jumped the gun on those stories and that calls into question whether you ' re fit to be commander in chief . If he repeats that tonight how will you respond ? Well , I ' ll just simply say and mean it to the bottom , you know , the case was made that he went after his mother with a hammer and he wanted to hit his mother over the head with a hammer , that he stabbed somebody , that he had hit somebody in the face with a lock . He smashed somebody ' s face with a lock , with a padlock and other things and I ' m saying he ' s trying to justify this because he wants to be telling the truth and he ' s trying to justify it and then he said he ' s pathological . He has a pathological temper or something and he wrote that himself in the book and , you know , I ' m trying to figure out what ' s going on over here . You hit somebody in the face with a lock and go after your mother with a hammer , you do all of these things and you ' re trying to justify that , yes , you did them and that ' s supposed to make you credible . We heard the word It ' s a very strange situation . Heard the word hammer several times in your answer . Want to ask you about an ABC news poll . You and Ben Carson at the top of most polls right now and both doing quite well with republican voters , high favorability but when it goes to the general election voters , he ' s doing . Better than you . He ' s got a 50 favorability . You ' re only at 38 and 59 unfavorable for you . How do you explain that and anything you can do about it ? Well , sure , you do a lot about it once you tart running and focusing on that . Zogby came out with a poll where I ' m at 30 to 127 against Ben and I beat Hillary head to head in numerous polls but that ' s a different group of folks . Right now I ' m dealing with republicans . You ' re also dealing with China in an op ed in " The wall Street journal " today you say it ' s time to tell the truth on China but critics say the policies you ' re calling for will spark a trade war that will backfire on the United States . How do you respond . What ' s a trade war ? We ' re losing 400 billion a year with China in terms of imbalance . They ' re killing us and in every respect and their currency manipulators are beating us with their currency manipulation and other things so when you say trade war they ' ve got a trade war against us . They beat us at every front . We have people literally that have no clue and if you look at what China is doing step by step by step , I mean , trade war , sure , you won ' t even have a trade war . China has taken so much money out of the United States , so many jobs , so much of our base that trade war , I don ' t think you ' ll have one , frankly , because they can ' t afford a trade war . We saw last week unemployment down to 5 . Federal reserve almost certain to raise rates . Is that the right move ? It is the right move but the unemployment is not 5 . The unemployment is probably close to 20 . If you look at all the people out there that want to get jobs that have given up you ' re talking about unemployment that ' s actually close to 20 . The world is not happy . You know , you talked about my big crowd at the arena last night . It was in Illinois , it was unbelievable . Believe me , if real unemployment was at 5 I wouldn ' t have had 10 , 000 people at that arena last night . Who else is in the hot seat tonight ? I think everybody . I mean , look , it ' s a contest . It ' s a very interesting set of characters . Everybody has a very different point of view and I think it ' s going to be an interesting time tonight . I look forward to it . We do too . Thanks for joining us this morning ? Thank you very much , George .
