But big news with Blake Shelton . Gwen Stefani . There have been rumors for quite some time . Now it is official . The stars have confirmed that they are a couple . They ' re Beth going through a divorce at the same time and apparently they ' re seeking comfort from one another . He ' s a little bit country . She ' s a little bit rock ' N ' roll . ? Reporter : And this morning , reps for Blake Shelton and Gwen Stefani confirm to ABC news they are no longer just co workers . But are now music ' s big crossover couple . And then there ' s Blake who , again , is very Sasquatch . Handsome . " The voice " co stars were seen out and about over Halloween weekend sparking rumors that they were more than just friends . Yeah . Who ' s Blake . Blake Shelton . Oh , the country guy . But Stefani dodged questions about their relationship insuring " On air with Ryan Seacrest " just this past Tuesday . I read the stories about the two of you . Are they true or not true . I ' m not going to answer that right now . I think I ' ve given up enough of myself but I think he ' s hot , don ' t you ? To be super honest like it is kind of crazy like we both went through the same thing at the same time . Reporter : Both announced big breaks earlier this year . They ' ve really bonded over their broken marriages , they went through very public and difficult divorces . Reporter : Stefani and her husband Gavin rossdale calling it quits after 13 years of marriage . Shelton splitting with fellow country star Miranda lambert after being married four years . Something lambert alluded to while accepting an award at last night ' s cmas . I appreciate it . I needed a bright spot this year . Reporter : Overnight Shelton also hit the cma stage . ? Hey hey all right ? Reporter : And it ' s reported at the nanny joined him in Nashville . Music ' s newest couple now in perfect harmony . Shelton and Stefani were the talk of Nashville last night . A few jokes then their way during the cmas and afterwards Shelton ' s pal Luke Bryan even joked there is no way he could score a guy like that . Leave it to your buddies to be supportive of your relationship . They say they ' re happy together . That ' s all that matters . Yeah . What was the song . I just told robin the power of There ' s so many different ways ? Isn ' t it amazing a song changes when you move one word . Just one little word . That sounded like a hit too . Thank you .
