ABC ' s Josh Haskell in Marshall town I want joined by my colleague . ABC ' s Catholic voters were here in Marshall island in Marshall high schooler expecting presents fountain Donaldson any minute now . Just give you a sense where we are were actually in the gym . That ' s for the press conference taking place . We are not allowed to show you where the rally ' s gonna be because . Catherine ' s close friends the Secret Service won ' t let us down as were waiting Donald Trump ' s arrival . But it ' s going to be quite a date for ms . who believes he ' s expected to have this press conference with the special guest chair Joseph or hail of Arizona . And you know on the way in which Josh there weren ' t . 100 protesters outside protesting immigration certainly that ' s something I just think we could possibly see inside using any protesters ' site yet . And they are outside her husband and every . Single tribe rally I ' ve covered in Iowa when there is a large crowd of protesters outside greeting trump as he pulls in . They usually make somewhat of an appearance inside and of course immigration going to be a huge topic today because sheriff Joseph Arizona has similar beliefs to Donald Trump in terms of removing . Those were here illegally not just in Arizona but all the United States and also building a wall . Right exactly so it will be interesting to see what happens inside here today he has an apartment in Iowa City . Later which is expected to be bigger but this would definitely have the propensity quite interesting did and I share of jobs so let ' s take you back inside the . It might not be be . Rally that he might expect to see we can ' t leave so it ' s kind of where were trapped right now you see some . Men involved . For a pair and we are new true . Inside of the Jim is we ' re waiting here chair Joseph Donald Trump . You can see many members of the news media awaiting them as well following this event comparable also have a rally in I was city . Later tonight as we are six days away from the IO . Pocket so that is the scene right now and I ' ve been to many trump rallies Katherine my colleague it ' s her first one of course the rally hasn ' t started but from covering Ben Carson would if you notice so far Catherine what we turn you around it . We can shoot down . And show you the line of people it . It ' s definitely much different . Cars and he ' s obviously a quieter . Candidate more so Donald Trump is not anything that ' s kind of in keeping with . With the crowds . Many more protesters . People who are more excited or enthusiastic . Opening sequence them . Doctor but in person or AM many of different atmosphere here so . This line stretching around the building . Hundreds of equally stunned into this gymnasium where we aren ' t . And that is giving you a little bit of the look out here you see all of satellite trucks are the media . Is awaiting us . So let ' s just . We ' ll take you around again . You know we ' re expecting Donald Trump here any minute now he has art he has the land he ' s going to be here giving a press conference with special guest who we think it ' s there . Sheriff Joseph who ' ll be joining let me just flip this around and show you again . The big crowd in the region there ' s there ' s just Haskell coming back is joining us here it ' s . Track was having little issue making it through the airwaves or gave him . My US sell your Wi Fi which is saved my life here in Iowa . And so he ' s doing his part how to get its track and partial on world news we ' ll have a full report of course .
