We move on to Donald Trump . The attacks on the republican front runner not letting up , boxing legend Muhammad Ali among the latest to weigh in on his plan to ban muslims from entering the country and his business interests taking a hit too but poll Numbers strong , some of his highest out in a brand new poll and not backing down at all . Tom llamas is tracking the story . Reporter : Good morning . It ' s more than Muhammad Ali . Now the Navy S . E . A . L . Commander who oversaw the bin laden raid talking about the dangers of his plan as reports show some muslims abroad no longer want to do business with trump . Overnight , Donald Trump separating himself even further from muslims world wide saying he doesn ' t need the help of Arab nations to go after terrorists overseas . Now , would you cede that you need arab muslim nations to help the United States defeat the jihad ? Would you cede that ? No , I don ' t but I do think it would be very helpful . Reporter : This as trump claims his proposed ban on muslims coming to the U . S . Isn ' t about religion at all . This is about security . It ' s not about religion . This is about security . We cannot allow people to come into this country that have horrible things on their mind . Reporter : While Hillary Clinton telling voters , trump ' s plan is actually hurting the war on terror . Donald Trump is supplying them with new propaganda . He is playing right into their hands . Reporter : And boxing great Muhammad Ali who is Muslim releasing this statement . " I believe that our political leaders should use their position to bring understanding about the religion of Islam and clarify that these misguided murderers have perverted people ' s views on what Islam really is " also weighing in , one of the world ' s greatest terrorist hunters , retired Navy admiral William Mccraven . He oversaw the Navy S . E . A . L . Operation that killed Osama bin laden . Here ' s his take on trump ' s ban on muslims . When we get to that point then Isis has won so we can ' t go down that path . We cannot restrict muslims from coming into the United States . Reporter : So the big question , how is all of this affecting trump ? A new poll out of south Carolina . Guess what it shows , Donald Trump up 0 points . His biggest lead ever in south Carolina . Dr Carson , senator Cruz and senator Rubio tied for second essentially . This is trump ' s biggest lead in South Carolina since he started running and , second , this was conducted before and after his call to ban muslims from coming into the U . S .
