on the game coming up . A realist . The race for the white house and gloves are off between Bernie sanders and Hillary Clinton like never before with new polls showing a dead heat just 20 days before the first vote answer faced off in Iowa last night and ABC ' s Cecilia Vega is on the trail in des Moines , good morning , Cecilia . Reporter : Did you say heat , George ? Good morning to you from a freezing Iowa . This time , 20 days from now as you say we will know who won the Iowa caucasuss but this morning , Hillary Clinton is feeling the pressure and Bernie sanders is pouncing . They were not on stage together but overnight a democratic candidates ' forum hosted by fusion , Bernie sanders and Hillary Clinton going head to head . Have you noticed this lady has been getting more aggressive with you ? Yes . Why is that ? It could be that the inevitable candidate for the democratic nomination may not be so inevitable today . I have laid out specifically my tax plans and my friend , senator sanders , has said he will lay out hit before the Iowa caucasus and am anxious to see them . He was basically a democrat before he was a republican . Reporter : Also taking time out for a few laughs . Is it off grabrand for a democratic socialist to live in a mansion like the white house ? Well , I would consider it more like public housing . Nice public housing . Reporter : And across the aisle , the laughs continued . ? Donald Trump on " The tonight show " with jimmy Fallon . Extraordinarily handsome person . I have a beautiful head of hair . Reporter : And , of course , on the attack . I think she ' s got maybe a race that ' s going to be a little tougher . I think she ' ll win , I guess . Reporter : When it comes to Hillary Clinton . I haven ' t even started on her yet although last week I did a little bit , I guess but we haven ' t even started . Reporter : Yeah , he is not letting up . Right now the Clinton campaign is trying to lower expectations . One campaign insider telling me the mood inside camp Clinton is not necessarily nervous but the word is realistic , George . 20 days to go . I don ' t know who drew the shorter straw you or Linzie . You get inside . Matthew dowd , calling for a spirited debate . She could lose the first two contests ? We ' ve gone from a coronation to confrontation and could go to C conflagration and I still think she ' s favored but it could be a much longer race . What does the world look like in the Clinton camp if she actually loses Iowa and loses New Hampshire ? I ' m reminded of the line in " Jaws " I think we ' ll need a bigger boat . The other thing fascinating who would have guessed six months ago Donald Trump has a better odds of winning Iowa and new Hampshire than Hillary Clinton in this process ? You believe that . He has better odds today that he will win Iowa andnew Hampshire than Hillary Clinton will . Way up in New Hampshire he is in a real fat . Matt dowd , thanks very much .
