In the meantime we turn to breaking developments this evening after the attack in San Bernardino the husband and wife turned killers . Tonight cited for groups mother has now been added to the terror watch list . And there was a laser focus on for rooks childhood friend Alan wreaking Marcus who allegedly purchased the assault weapons used in the attack . And this evening what we ' re now learning about his FaceBook post the night after the attack . All of this of course amid that central question so many people across this country are now asking . Did they have helped get more people know that attack was coming here ' s ABC ' s chief investigative correspondent Brian Ross . As a new photo emerged tonight inside that conference room moments before the attack began a presentation of the employee of the year award . Authorities said Syed Farooq and tests FEMA leak may have had help . Tonight authorities say they may bring criminal gun charges at the least against 24 year old Enrique markets . A punk rock fan convert to Islam and a close friend of Syed Farooq . It was Marquez who authorities say provided the two assault rifles used in the attack . And now officials believe Farouk asked Marcus to buy them so his name would not be on file . In connection with the high powered weapons that was almost four years ago . But tells me that he was thinking about doing something bad even up to four years ago . We are going to see him now Marquez as mother would not talk about the investigation today . But on a FaceBook post the night of the attack Marquez wrote I ' m very sorry guys it was a pleasure . The next day he checked himself into a metal facility . Today friend said he may have known something about the plot in advance . He says I ' m the lines of late there ' s a lot of Muslims and I ' ll bet you ' re just ready this . A lawyer . Attack and and we didn ' t think that ' s about it authorities also revealed today the terror couple may have had access to a second car . A black Lexus registered to for Rick ' s mother mafia . FBI agents found shooting range targets at and T go pro camera boxes inside . Tonight authorities said for Brooke ' s mother has been added to a US terror watch his father was put on the list two days ago . In both cases as a precaution to make sure they don ' t leave the country . His mother and father now on that terror watch list Brian would just because you ' ve learned more about a significant sum of money put into the shooters account . Shortly before the attacks . Tried David federal officials today revealed a deposit of 28500 . Dollars into forest bank account in the weeks before the attack . A lonely took out within online lending company . Money officials say was there to take care of the baby daughter they were leaving behind you will be continuing to follow the trail Brian thank .
