Casagrande : I try not to tell it . I had one situation filming 2010 ' s Into the Shark Bite where I was essentially running out of air , and I had to go to the surface , and I was out of the cage with great whites . Like I said , if you swim away from them , they pursue you . I was breaking my own rule of don ' t act like prey or they ' ll treat you like prey . I had one relatively curious juvenile great white , and the juveniles are like puppy dogs . They want to swim up and put their paws on everything . The bigger ones , they ' ve been around . They know what boats are . They know what people are . They ' re cautious , and that ' s the reason why they ' ve gotten so big . They ' re mature enough to understand that they ' re not the only dangerous thing out there . But this little shark , it didn ' t really want to come and play with me either it seemed like it wanted to bite me . I was interacting with it on the bottom , and it kept coming up doing the mock charging and bumping into the camera , and I ' d bump it , and it ' d swim away and come back . Well , I bumped it one last time , and I started to swim up . It was swimmin ' away , but it knew that I was swimming up , so it immediately turned around . It was the first time I actually witnessed a great white stalking and then attempting an ambush vertical approach from underwater . I saw this little shark little as in , like , a 10 footer coming up at me , and I saw its little white chin wagging . It was accelerating toward me . I ' m like . . . uh , holy s . I just relied on my standard instinct of using the camera , keeping the camera between me and the shark . The shark came up with its mouth open , and as I finned back , it sort of went past me and I hit it on the side on its gills . That time , when I hit its gills , it seemed to finally respond like , s , that thing is dangerous . So it swam down . I kept an eye on it and kept finning , and I saw it circling back again . They ' re just like teenagers . They don ' t really know any better , and they ' re really curious . But when a great white shark is curious , it can be catastrophic .
