We begin with the president ' s final state of the union address . Making the case that he honored the progress made on his watch , addressing key issues like curing cancer , climate change , education . But priority number one , protecting the American people against terror networks and turning an eye towards the future of the country and the future of the white house , here ' s ABC ' s David Wright . The president of the united States . Reporter : The next time we hear the sergeant in arms make that familiar announcement , a different president will be walking into the chamber and glad handing his way down the aisle . The night was Barack Obama ' s last state of the union , his parting shot , at this point he ' s playing for the history books . We live in a time of extraordinary change , change that ' s reshaping the way we live , the way we work , our planet , our place in the world . Reporter : That word " Change " which served as mantra for candidate Barack Obama ' s election all those years ago , tonight took on a different meaning . Shaded by . Seven years of compromises , disappointments , and unintended consequences . The office and its responsibilities have changed demand , visibly as it always does . Tonight as president Barack Obama framed it , change can be good or bad . It ' s change that can broaden opportunity or widen inequality . Reporter : The white house billed this speech as different sort of state of the union , not so much a laundry list of proposals but a plea to fix America ' s broken politics . The future we want , all of us want , opportunity and security for our families , a rising standard of living , a sustainable peaceful planet for our kids , all that is within our reach . Reporter : Tonight there was one big ticket agenda item in the traditional sense , a vow to cure cancer , even nominating a new cancer czar . And because he ' s gone to the mat for all of us on so many issues over the past 40 years I putting Joe in charge of mission control . Reporter : But other Obama agenda items were notably absent . One week after he was in tears on the issue of gun violence Every time I think about those kids , it gets me mad . Reporter : Tonight Obama sent a silent message , an empty chair in the first lady ' s box for the victims of gun violence . Also not mentioned , the seizure of two U . S . Navy patrol boats and their crews by Iran . But overall , Obama didn ' t rub salt in the republican wounds . He pleaded for unity . So I hope we can work together this year on some bipartisan priorities . Reporter : Tonight the president also highlighted the plight of refugees , especially the millions fleeing Isis and the civil war in Syria , insisting America is not embroiled in world war iii . That is the story isil wants to tell . That ' s the kind of propaganda they use to recruit . We don ' t need to build them up to show that we ' re serious . Reporter : Obama insisted America oh is not in retreat . Let me tell you something , the United States of America is the most powerful nation on Earth . Period . Period . It ' s not even close . Reporter : Tonight the state of the union may be sound but the state of our politics is more like that capitol dome , shrouded in scaffolding , hard hat zone full of dangers . The open question , who will be giving the state of the union next year leading the debate moving forward . I ' m going to try to make it a little shorter . I know some of you are anxious to get back to Iowa . Reporter : Two of the hopefuls were there in the chambers tonight on the republican side , senator Marco Rubio , for the democrats , senator Bernie sanders . Their colleague senator Ted Cruz declined his invitation . Too busy out campaigning in new Hampshire . The state of Washington , on the other hand , is a manifest disaster . Reporter : Donald Trump wasn ' t invited tonight , but as he campaigned out in Iowa that didn ' t seem to bother him . The tumultuous republican race is a worry not just for the democrats but also for the senior republican inside the chamber sitting beside the vice president for the first time . Earlier today speaker Paul Ryan urged citizens to tune in for the republican response . If people want to hear from a leader who has brought people together , if people want to hear from a leader who has gotten things done , who has set an agenda , tune in and watch governor Nikki Haley deliver the address . Reporter : Tonight governor Haley distanced herself from the president but also from some of the candidates in her own party . During anxious times it can be tempting to follow the siren call of the angriest voices . We must resist that temptation . No one who is willing to work hard , abide by our laws , and love our traditions should ever feel unwelcome in this country . Reporter : Among the democrats , huge uncertainty . Senator Bernie sanders there in the chamber as new polls show him pulling ahead of Hillary Clinton . It could be that the inevitable candidate for the democratic nomination may not be so inevitable today . Reporter : But less than a month to go before the first votes are cast , Clinton once again finds herself on the defensive . Tonight she was on CNN dismissing the polls . I don ' t pay any attention to this . I don ' t feel that it ' s a good reflection about who will actually come out on caucus night . Reporter : Tomorrow she ' ll be out on the campaign trail again . Vice president Biden may wish he were out there , too . His grief over his son cost him his chance to toss his hat in the ring one more time . Tonight was his last state of the union with front row seats . For Obama , too , a sense of wishfulness , a pang of sorrow of what might might have been . I believe in change because I believe in you . Reporter : That soaring rhetoric got him there in the first place , but has he delivered on all that has promised , how will history judge him ? That ' s still up for grabs . The president likes to use the metaphor that there ' s still a lot on the table . And he ' s playing the long game . And I think tonight the president showed that we still have oh of he still has a couple more innings left . He came in saying he wanted to dissolve the division in the country but he came away with the country more divided and in more discord . Reporter : President Obama himself will spend the next year fighting for his bucket list . The rest of us will now be focused in earnest on where we go next . I ' m David Wright for " Nightline " in New York .
