Mets people are hoping they ' ll be able to get an inning per game more out of their vaunted starting rotation since Royals hitters are aggressive and don ' t run up counts . That would be a big plus . . . Manager Terry Collins named Juan Uribe to the official World Series roster on Tuesday . He sees Uribe as having a better chance than most against the hard throwing Royals pitchers . Uribe will be shooting for his third ring with three different teams , a rare trifecta indeed . The Mets are doing without a true backup SS ( Kelly Johnson and Uribe could fill in if necessary for part of a game ) . If Wilmer Flores should get hurt , the Mets could activate Matt Reynolds . . . Rookie Michael Conforto will play , as he has against right handers ( all four Royals starters are righthanded ) . Conforto started the year in A ball . " It ' s crazy , " he said . " It feels like a couple years ago I was in high A ball . " ( It was actually five months ago ) . . . Yoenis Cespedes said while his shoulder was a little sore Sunday taking BP , he woke up Monday morning and " felt great . " So he ' s playing . " . . . He ' s also going to continue to golf " as long I ' m feeling good . " Cespedes has been playing golf for two years , and says he shoots in the 70s ( one writer expressed disbelief Ok , me ) . There ' s one story going around ( one that was repeated by Collins ) that Cespedes reached a 585 yard par 5 with a driver and wedge . That ' s almost more believable . . . Juan Lagares may be used primarily as a late inning defensive replacement in vast Kauffman Stadium . . . Bartolo Colon says he ' ll re enact his famous behind the back play " if the opportunity presents itself . " . . . Eiland on unconscious Daniel Murphy : " I ' m sure he bleeds like the rest of us . " Maybe so , but he is on his way to one of the greatest postseasons in history . . . Murphy ' s hot streak coincided with the effort to get him to pull more , via hitting coach Long and assistant hitting coach Pat Roessler . They noticed Murphy had an OPS over . 900 when he pulled the ball but under . 600 when he didn ' t . . . David Wright arrived at Kauffman Stadium at 11 : 30 a . m . Monday to get treatment for his back , and so he ' d also have time to fulfill his obligation to participate in the 3 : 45 media session . Wright was also seen stopping on the street to give out his autograph . There is no finer gentleman in the game . . . If there ' s someone close on the Mets , it might be Jeurys Familia . He stopped to hold open the door for a media member Monday ( yes , me ) .
