Alex Gordon , possibly the best left fielder in the game , will surely decline his 14 million player option . But that doesn ' t mean he wants to leave . " I want to be here , " Gordon said without specifically saying what he intends to do about the option ( it ' s obvious he ' ll decline it , anyway ) . " This is like my second home . We love it here . . . Obviously , things happen . . . but this is where we want to be . " . . . This World Series features a pitching coach the Yankees fired ( the Royals ' Dave Eiland ) vs . a hitting coach the Yankees fired ( the Mets ' Kevin Long ) . Eiland didn ' t get into what happened in New York , but he did note , " We are here . This is my second time since leaving there . " The last time the Yankees were in the World Series , Eiland was their pitching coach , and Long their hitting coach , as Joel Sherman of the New York Post pointed out . . . Since he plays nearly every position , Ben Zobrist was asked whether all 30 teams might pursue him this winter as a free agent . " I highly doubt all 30 will , " he said , " but there ' ll be a lot of teams . " . . . Asked to summarize what he knows about the Mets ' vaunted rotation , Jarrod Dyson did it in three letters . " Gas . " That said , he suggested the Royals aren ' t too worried about the heat . " We ' ve been facing great pitching all year . " Dyson said . And in fact , the numbers show that no team does as well against 95 plus throwers as the Royals . " Ninety five plus is routine for us , " Dyson said . " Look at the AL Central . Cleveland , they all throw hard . Chicago , they got some hard throwers . I doubt it ' d bother us . " . . . Chris Young took a while to be signed despite a nice season last year in Seattle but signed an incentive laden contract late in KC . " I had a good year . I don ' t know exactly what happened , " Young said . " But I ' m extremely grateful it led me here . " He was another good idea by GM Dayton Moore . . . Johnny Cueto realizes he ' s hurt his free agent stock with a couple rough outings ( despite one superb one , the Game 5 win over Houston ) . " That ' s the way it is , " Cueto said . " Hopefully , I pitch two great games and increase my value . " . . . Cueto has been hurt by some late struggles more than David Price , who is still seen as the top free agent pitcher . And Cueto says he believes the biggest difference for him is the adjustment to the league change . But as a free agent , he says he isn ' t ruling out the AL . " The DH isn ' t a bad thing . , " Cueto said . " I like the challenge . " In fact , when a question started to be asked about Boston , Cueto , who was using a translator , immediately understood . He started to smile ( but didn ' t comment specifically on the Red Sox ' s alleged interest ) . . . Royals people love how Alex Rios has fit in . He came in with record of having never played in the postseason and a reputation as a bit of a soft pretty boy . " It ' s been a long career without playoff experience , " Rios said . " I ' m finally getting to experience it . It ' s been very rewarding . I ' m having a great time . " . . . The Royals do a terrific job scouting and adding veteran pitchers ( not only Young but Ryan Madson and Joe Blanton ) . They even scouted Barry Zito last winter , just in case .
