The race for president now and the candidates facing off in tonight ' s big debate . Donald Trump and Ben Carson will be center stage again . A new poll shows they are neck and neck . Last night trump giving a preview of the attacks Carson may face and trump will join us live in a moment but first ABC ' s Tom llamas is there in Milwaukee for tonight ' s showdown . Good morning , Tom . Reporter : Robin , good morning to you . The debate takes place here at the Milwaukee theater and you ' re right , trump spoke in front of a huge crowd last night putting the pressure on Dr Ben Carson but this morning we ' ve looked into the stories that he ' s been questioned about and some are checking out . Overnight , Donald Trump unleashing on Dr Ben Carson and the new scrutiny over Carson ' s life story . This is the only election in history where you are better off if you stab somebody . Reporter : Trump and Carson now neck and neck in the polls , the retired neurosurgeon forced to answer questions about his violent youth . If you try and hit your mother over the head with a hammer , your poll Numbers go up . A lot of weird things are happening . This is a strange election , isn ' t it ? Reporter : Carson standing by the stories he wrote about in his autobiography and talks about on the campaign trail like turning his life around as a young man after trying to stab a fellow teen . Carson ' s campaign pointing to an article in " Parade " magazine in 1997 where his mother corroborates the storytelling the reporter , oh , that really happened and after " The wall Street journal " reported discrepancies in Carson ' s account of an incident at Yale where he said he was honored as the most honest student after a class hoax involving a bogus test a fellow student who staged the hoax telling ABC news , Carson was not lying saying , quote , I think he got it close to right . I do not remember this level of scrutiny for one president Barack Obama when he was ruvening , in fact , I remember just the opposite . Reporter : But as other candidates say , this is all fair game , Carson finding some support from senator Marco Rubio . I know everything I need to know about Ben Carson . He came from a poor family with no advantages in life and worked hard and became one of the world ' s most renowned neurosurgeons . That ' s all I need to know . Reporter : The debate is tonight . It ' ll be two hours and starts at 9 : 00 eastern . There will be eight gop candidates on the main stage . Governors Christine and Huckabee did not make it . So much focus going on with Carson , unclear how much policy they ' ll be able to squeeze in .
