It turned out to be anger in the city of Chicago brewing at this hour reaching a boiling point tonight . There was an apology today from that city ' s mayor after it was learned a series of police videos were kept secret now meet public . And tonight the pictures coming in at this hour the protesters in the streets there are many of whom are now saying this apology is not enough and that the mayor should resign . One video in particular that captured the shooting death of oh Quan McDonald sixteen rounds and fifteen seconds . Kept from the public for thirteen months mayor Rahm Emanuel acknowledging it happened on my watch ABC ' s . Outs friends on the scene of the protest tonight . Tonight a hundreds of angry protesters taking to the streets of Chicago . Shutting down intersections along Chicago ' s famed Michigan avenue the magnificent mile . And what the protests have been for the most part peaceful they have been very vocal about the one thing they want men around him to resign . Yeah . Embattled mayor under scrutiny for weeks since the release of this video showing police in shooting look Quan McDonald . Who later died . Video city attorneys fought to keep under wraps . I own it . I take responsibility . For what happened because it happened on my watch and umps are . But just outside critics not buying the apology a political theater . Surrounded around today is so disingenuous . The normally combative mayor sounding emotional and humble telling City Council about a question a young man who has had run ins with the law . Asked him you think police would ever treat you . The way they treat me . In the answer is . No . And that is wrong . And that has to change in this city . And David this large crowd of demonstrators finally dissipating late this evening with a ready other protest scheduled for this week the mayor says his . Newly created task force will come up with concrete solutions for the police department . Come march David out whereas in Chicago again tonight Alex thank you .
