Hey everybody I ' m on the Nevada and are the hot pop news story I think online right now well . We begin with what could be . The strangest casting up when he ' s sixteen and keep in mind it is only January . Just fine if that ' s the play Michael Jackson and an upcoming British TV movie yes . That is theme doesn ' t find them Shakespeare in Love playing picking up pop . So while that settled and let me explain the plot which . Followed Jackson gearing up the old road trip he allegedly took that Elizabeth Taylor and Marlon Brando following the nine elevenths attack . That ' s a lot I didn ' t apply they reportedly rented a car to travel from New York to California . Stockard Channing that the lake Taylor Brian Cox will star as Brenda . No word yet on when we ' ll air but anyone is hoping for at thriller and beat it Biden said to expect . A lighthearted tongue in cheek comedy . Well they think laughter is the Batman and and it ' s certainly true for Ryan his opening up about how it comedic character dead pool . Helped him cope with the loss his father . After telling them and help that its characters quirky sense of humor . Allowed him to take life a little less seriously . And joke around with in stat until the very . Reynolds as well laughing in third U in the dark moment and even help you crawl their way packed house . Who needs supertanker a later date and it sounds like and that humor is the fat super power there . That is the truth now . Some content through pandemonium . Broke out on Jimmy Kimmel Live last night when Jack Black stopped by . The comedian Alan attempting to name various household items the actor took on Walking Dead actress Lauren calling . In game mean that they did take a look at what happened and held up at this car an act the lads what it ' s call . Name this . Jack we ' ll start with you . I ' m Jack says it ' s a did jury don ' t did . Yeah . Lower added . Plant you don ' t be surprised at lower and actually went on to win other AFLAC its fourth and on his points for creativity with . Call eight bin bill a hobo life . Well they say he can ' t teach an old dog new tricks than if you actually may not be able that he and into any trick either . They look . An eleven week old man and his owner filmed him showing off his amazing now control . Or so she thought . Very proud of you . You trend to . We ' re . It . Think you got that ' s adorable puppy dog eyes to get out of trouble . After that performance by thing but the need parted in ended DNA from more pop news tomorrow or ABC news . I ' m on an odd in New York have a great day .
