We begin in Chicago where the police chief is now out of a job tonight . After that controversial video of a deadly shooting . And just a short time ago the attorney general in Illinois called for the US Justice Department to investigate whether Chicago police broke federal law . Authorities say the teenager was shot sixteen times police allegedly firing even after he fell to the ground . The team walking in the middle of the road cops moving in weapons drawn . Tonight this new image officers inside a nearby Burger King . Allegedly combing through surveillance video moments after the team was shot dead . Leading to new questions over how the investigation was handled . ABC ' s Alex prize leads us off from Chicago . Tonight amid the rising tension in this city Chicago ' s top cop out of a job . Chicago mayor Rahm Emanuel bowing to public pressure shaking up his administration dumping the city ' s top cop Gary McCarthy . He has become an issue rather than dealing with the issue . And it distraction . The fallout comes on the heels of the release last week of that shocking dash cam video . Investigators say it shows a Chicago police officer Jason van dyke shooting seventeen year old looked Quan McDonald sixteen shots in fifteen seconds . Van dyke who argues he fired his weapon because he feared for his life was released on bond Monday night . A second dash cam video shows police pursuing McDonald as he runs through a Burger King parking lot moments before he was shocked these images obtained by ABC news show an officer in the restaurant shortly after the shooting . The Burger King district manager alleges officers deleted video from at least one of the restaurant several cameras . But investigators who reviewed the surveillance video state forensic testing of the system shows video was not tempered way . Both sides agree the cameras would not have captured the shooting . And David Barry Manuel also announcing a new police accountability . Task force to handle cases of excessive force and problem officers there ' s already an ongoing federal investigation into how the McDonald case was handled . Tonight the Illinois attorney general calling for the Department of Justice to completely review . The entire Chicago Police Department David ABC ' s Alex Phares leading us off from Chicago .
