These coordinated attacks in Paris have authorities here in America taking a closer look at so called soft targets beefing up security at major public events including sports stadiums and other gatherings around the country and ABC ' s gio Benitez is in front of the metlife stadium in east huther Ford , New Jersey , where the giants face the patriots this morning . Gio , good morning . Reporter : Dan , good morning to you . Nearly a million fans will be packing the stadiums all across this country and police say the NFL already has a good security plan in place . But they ' re stepping it up even more . Metal detectors , pat downs and bag searches from stadiums and tourist hot spots to campuses and concerts . Overnight public venues across the country taking dramatic steps to tighten security in the wake of Friday ' s attacks . With tens of thousands of fans funneling into the rose bowl Saturday , more officers and canine units on patrol . Security posted in the parking lots in Tampa bay in preparation for tonight ' s game and the NFL with 12 games today and another tomorrow , more than 900 , 000 fans to pour into stadiums . In a statement the league prom prompting an increased security inside and outside . The NBA doing the same keeping the specifics of those plans under wraps . In America ' s largest cities the effort to prepare for the worst a full time job . We ' re here to ensure new yorkers feel safe . Reporter : Police ramping up patrols . The NYPD activating as many as 400 extra counterterrorism officers on the streets . And placing additional officers in the city ' s subway stations . In L . A . , police routinely running dramatic simulation , this one in July , officers rappelling out of helicopters , these measures an effort to protect vulnerable venues with a high volume of visitors . Soft targets are everywhere . But you do the best you can and you deploy your resources as effectively as possible . Reporter : Destinations like the mall of America which sees over 40 million visitors each year particularly susceptible . Terror groups even encouraging attacks on that shopping center in February . And right now there is no known threat , but no doubt everyone will be on high alert because you ' ve got the Thanksgiving day parade coming our way . You ' ve got those two tree writings in D . C . And New York . If you see something suspicious just report it , Paula . If you see something , say something . Gio , thank you . For for on the terrorists that Americans face here at home we want to bring in ABC news senior justice correspondent Pierre Thomas in Washington . Pierre , thanks for joining us . You heard gio talking about these soft targets , the arenas and malls . What ' s the plan to protect these targets here in the U . S . The key did trying to get intelligence about who Isis is communicating with . There are dozens of FBI terror investigations under way right now . We saw them peak around the fourth of July holiday and another surge underway as a result of attacks in France . There are so many Ven news in this country like Nalls and restaurants that don ' t have a lot of security and the only way you can prevent these kind of assaults to stop them before they happen before plots can fully take shape , Paula . The French recently stepped up their anti terror efforts because of " Charlie hebdo " just this past January . How much concern is there that the French weren ' t able to uncover this latest plot ? Reporter : A key question , why did this go undetected ? We don ' t have the answers yet . There ' s one possibility U . S . Officials are pondering , the worry that radical may have been using a new form of encryption to hide their communications . The FBI director has recently warned about what he calls going dark . He said they ' ve been able to track Isis communications on social media only to see certain players disappear off the grid . If that ' s what took place in France , it was signal a severe new problem . Pierre , the FBI is sending a team to Paris . What will their role be ? FBI is preparing a team of investigators to support the French if a request is made . The team is expected to include expert notice forensic , specifically cell phone and computer information recovery with Americans injured and among the dead , the FBI wants to help any way it can , Paula . All right , Pierre , thanks for joining us from Washington this morning .
