Are you ready for some football ? I said , are you ready for some football ? A big showdown this weekend . Tom Brady , Peyton manning going head to head . One will be going back to the super bowl . Our superstar T . J . Holmes with that story for us . Before that , robin called me a superstar . Look , as excited as we are about the game aren ' t you a little sad too ? This could be the last time we see Brady versus manning . The 17th time they ' ve gone head to head and it ' s clear who have gotten the better of the matchups . Stat sheet , it ' s Brady . If you look at the bank account it ' s manning . Peyton manning and Tom Brady are headed into the aftershock championship game this weekend sounding more like friends than fierce rivals . Peyton ' s been one of the best to ever play . All I can say about Tom Brady is that he plays the position the way it ' s supposed to be played . Reporter : The superstar quarterbacks are once again in each other ' s way . If manning and his broncos beat the patriots manning will have his shot at a second super bowl ring . Brady already has four . Over the course of their careers they have faced off 16 times with Brady winning 11 of those matchups , but in the postseason they ' re tied 2 2 . But manning has had the highest earning career of any player in NFL history . Raking in a total of 245 million from the league during his 18 years . That ' s around 58 million more than Brady . Manning also scores the highest with his off the field endorsement deals raking in another 12 million annually fronting for companies like nationwide , papa John ' s and Gatorade . Brady only brings in another 6 million a year in underarmor , tag Heuer and uggs . Good thing his wife is picking up some of the financial slack . Say what ? I don ' t want to say that on camera , no . What ' s that , George ? We were just comprissurprised by all the stats . His wife makes 45 million a year . She picks up some of the slack financially , if you will . But he ' s not starving . He ' s going to be fine . Manning has a light edge when it comes to head to head about to get to the super bowl . The postseason 2 2 but when the aftershock championship or the super bowl is on the line manning is ahead 2 1 . You can ' t help if you don ' t have a dog in the fight it ' s kind of hard not to cheer for manning . It ' s his last hurrah . It ' s fun when you don ' t have a dog in the hunt . I would like to have a dog in the hunt . Next year the staints . Much more coming up .
