First it ' s " Your voice , your vote " and ABC ' s Tom llamas starts us off on the latest republican race from Manchester , New Hampshire . Good morning , Tom . Reporter : Robin , good morning to you . Donald Trump now changing his tune acknowledging he may not win every primary while still trying to show that trump swagger that carried him this far . Overnight , Donald Trump in full spin mode trying to shed the loser label . For trump , even though he lost Iowa , he is still a winner . I came in second . I came in a strong second . Third was quite a bit away . Reporter : Actually it was a narrow victory , a difference of 1 . 2 . But trump feeling more confident about New Hampshire . Do you now feel real pressure . No , I don ' t think I feel any pressure . I ' ve done very well in new Hampshire . I ' ve been here a lot more . Reporter : And trump out with a new line of attacks against the Iowa winner , senator Ted Cruz , accusing him of winning with dirty campaign tricks , citing how the Cruz campaign mistakenly suggested in an interview Dr Ben Carson was dropping out . He insulted Ben Carson by doing what he did to Ben Carson . That was a disgrace . Reporter : Cruz apologized to Carson but says trump is the one with the real character problem . I can tell you six weeks ago Donald Trump was saying every day that I was his friend , that he loved me , that I was terrific , that I was nice . And now you ' re an anchor baby . And now I ' m an anchor baby . Reporter : In New Hampshire Cruz will have to get through Marco Rubio also . I think Ted ' s been very calculated and will say or do anything to get a vote . Reporter : But the granite Tate already proving to be a rocky ride for Rubio . So when senator Rubio gets here , when the boy in the bubble gets here I hope you guys ask him some questions . Reporter : Governor Chris Christie called you the buy in the bubble suggesting you ' re a delicate candidate that ' s not been tested . What do you say . Chris has had a tough couple of day , did very poorly in Iowa . Sometimes when people run into adversity they don ' t react well . Reporter : And Rubio and Cruz will several events in new Hampshire . Donald Trump with a single event in Arkansas , trump says that he will be adding events here in this state and also acknowledged that skipping the debate right before the Iowa caucus like lie hurt him but he would do it again in a second . Why ? He raised 6 million for veterans .
