this evening , one American is home , several others on the way after being held prisoner in Iran . Among them , a journalist , a pastor , a former marine . This image of the men as they make their journey back . Tonight , Skyping with family back home here in the united States , and our team , right there at that U . S . Base in Germany . It ' s still unclear when they ' ll board that plane home . ABC ' s chief white house correspondent Jonathan Karl tonight on how this all happened , and in a moment , the American who was not included . Reporter : Free at last . " Washington post " reporter Jason rezaian reunited with his family at a U . S . Military base in Germany , after spending 544 days in prison . Here , alongside his wife and brother , Ali , who spoke to ABC ' s Alex Marquardt . He ' s definitely lost some weight . But you know , he was joking , we we joking around . We were having a good time . You know , and really did act the same . Reporter : Former marine amir hekmati reunited with his family and congressman after enduring more than four years in prison . And pastor Saeed abedini ' s family celebrating his freedom after three and a half years . I told my kids , I will woke them up and I said , daddy ' s released from prison , you ' re going see him soon . Reporter : Student Matthew trevithick , greeted by his mother in Boston , is the first back to the U . S . All this after a dramatic 24 hours . Noon Saturday , the U . S . Confirms the prisoner exchange . Four hours later , the Iran nuclear deal goes into effect , sanctions lifted . But the plane doesn ' t leave . Iran won ' t let Jason rezaian ' s wife join him . Sunday morning , Iran finally agrees to allow rezaian ' s wife to get on the plane . While the plane is still in the air , the U . S . Government announces it is paying 1 . 7 billion to the Iranian government to settle an old financial dispute . And Jonathan Karl live with us from the white house . As you know , so many questions about the seven Iranians who were part of this prisoner swap . Four pardoned , three , their sentences commuted . People want to know , obviously , were their dangerous , do they pose a risk in being returned to Iran ? Reporter : David , the white house says that none of those seven freed Iranians had any ties to terrorism , but four of them were convicted on charges related to smuggling military equipment to Iran , so , these were not trivial charges , David . Jon Karl , thank you . A mentioned a moment ago ,
