ABC ' s Josh Haskell its rate university where tonight right behind me . The brown and black form will take place on fusion Martin O ' Malley Hillary Clinton in Bernie Sanders will all be in this room it different times . With the moderator is now want to . Would give you got a little bit of a taste of the questions the topics and what to expect so joining me right now is Hillary fry she ' s the executive editor at fusion as it go into . A Hilary welcome dialogue thank you don ' t NIC you ' re wearing your hat even know where I am original little cold here it ' s going a little I ' m bombing today I think we might break and he agrees . Now this is my fashion I ' m sticking . So you tell our viewers an ABC digital what to expect why they should tune in . And why a forum like this is just so relevant right now in the presidential process shore I am . Well you know this is it ' s a huge deal for fusion isn ' t the first kind of an hourly average I ' m like us I am what were bringing to the table editing is really different . And the other debates all of which I ' ve watched because I have received elections content refused and I ' m very well versed in what ' s going on and that ' s debates I ' m we ' ve got . For incredible moderator is three of them are under 35 . We have am Jorge Ramos at least in Menendez member brown and Akeelah Hughes . We hear we ' re sort of bringing this . The goals and my the desires and the issues of our audience is young multi cultural American audience to bear on this historic about opening their arms around since 1984 . We are like central to be associated with it and sort of bringing . Kind of new . Youthful look on these issues that we ' re going to be talking about tonight so you were focused on minority issues . Here in Iowa but also of course taking a lands here in and bringing it national . What you give us a little bit of a taste of some of the questions . Topics and why why it will be different . In just a standard to date which they ' re being chew up so far three of so far for the democratic car and so you know we took the rating at these questions incredibly seriously it was a huge collaboration come from within fusion with a crack and black and brown forum . Am witness other asserted influencers groups outside that we wanted to know . You know what they wanted to talk about what they care about so because it ' s a forum and we ' ll be spending a little over you know 20 20 five minutes with each candidate . Will be going through on the series a moderator questions . And we ' ll be having students on stage talking we ' re gonna bring in some video questions from the public . And as we were really focusing on those questions we worked very hard . To come up with questions . Can ' t answer with talking points now we know that ' s . It ' s really hard to do that and we ' re gonna get some talking points but we ' ve we ' ve really really really tried to bring personal connections . A lot of feeling . Into that question writing . And with all the three candidates in the democratic race . Obviously they have more time during debates but . He still find someone like Martin O ' Malley at times complaining that he didn ' t get enough time to debates are . Other candidates cut in erupting the moderator saying hold on I want to make my point in what ' s different about tonight is that it ' s just them on stage so why don ' t we take our viewers a little closer show us where the candidates will be sitting . And talk will be about how they will have more time because they don ' t have to compete with someone else ' s points . There . Are . And we Hillary fry taking us on a little bit of the two were sick we ' re gonna go on stage for a quick set . So what are we seeing right now Hillary . Partner . This is set up for tonight that ' s really what it and a look like we ' ll start I ' m in the background of these two rows Lahoud students joining us I ' m available asking questions . The candidates directly I can also tell you . Healthy . I ' m sorry sorry that you want it . Ain ' t no would you like me to take my . Hillary let ' s just do an enhanced through Hillary was explaining the cheers in the backpack filled with students students . And then you know a couple of them will be answering questions tonight . We worked with them on their questioning but they everything with a student services like what they really want to talk about we wanted to bring . You know together some people who . Don ' t normally get to question . The next potential president it ' s terrible to candidate city . And in here looking at a lottery players the candidate we ' ll be right here I ' m in the sort of solar . I asked at this stage last . I come not . Or . For the candidate and a shared and a song out there and as we mentioned we have four moderator so those are there chairs . And that ' s kind of the center appear in chess laudatory imagery university where we have to mention the Democrat one of the democratic defeats . Was held so the candidates are obviously familiar with this just give you kind of glimpse of what it looks like . Just hours before the forum and before we let Hillary ago want it to see if you could tell us a little bit more just about . How relevant this topic is right now . And how your questions will kind of reflect . The attitudes that Americans have an interest today they have in the top in topics that concern minorities . Short so you know we really feel day in and day out at fusion and were covering issues that matter to the new American majority I ' m these are issues about . Education access race . Police . Interactions communities all of these issues that the forms been talking about since 1984 . Are the issues that are gonna to find 2016 they are the things that matter most young America . An error in our everyday news coverage is or not each issues that we think mrs . An incredible opportunity to really just focus on the nose and and you know have really . Close personal conversations with the candidates on this issues if you tell us how long the candidates will have . Hers sure I ' m based you know I ' m writing right now we ' re looking about 25 minutes onstage with each I can tell you each candidate will have exactly . We ' ll take you so much to Hillary you drive good luck tonight on . C a big night for our joint venture with ABC . News Disney in Univision fusion . Where you can watch the U forum broadcast on their live streaming fusion dot net . So here ' s just one more view of what the State ' s looks like the candidate will sit there for chairs for the moderator and to give us a little bit more . The history of it when a bring in Wayne Ford . On your one of the co chairs of the brown a black form tell us why . You decided to start this forum and are you excited about what it looks like now and 26 team . What many years ago Meehan Murray more . Many years ago be there to Koppel ' s got ago . We recognize that we needed to talk to people and people couldn ' t miss the importance to black and brown could . So admiring teammate before we got together with that you know what everybody comes out . It ' s just not be in her so we decided that does put to go to prom and black presidential . And Morgan have Hillary Clinton Martin O ' Malley Bernie Sanders talking about these issues what do you hope comes out of tonight would you open . They talk about the they have been so far on the campaign trail or in debates was truthful when his present but tone through this millennial generation . It probably people for many years we have kind of control marquee moments revenue development so . But Thomas Arnold Fisher a bunch of racists and you know what we want to be hurt my values and sequential write . We think it ' s with a look at business would resort rituals he was good but we told the press organization of Britain beat you PO . Pickens prayer network and also departures what about charm just . Everett didn ' t look in the paper aka black people can be certain way if you look at new anymore I ' m too skewed look at the papal the killings or shootings . In August term situation I ' ve got turned in my own community in his city got a lot of charges immigration article on and off if the right time at the right place . Hillary fry fusion told us that . Their goal is to not have these candidates talking talking colts or rehearsed statements that they often give on the campaign trail . How do you expect to have to happen . Because ultimately fuels were controlled districts vote this Morgan debatable with the got the biggest voting bloc . I talk to must meet some real brings more slap believe we can has been talk directly to mr . race of the screen controls agreements president . And a last question for you waning days . What issue right now what you believe is at the forefront of this election and you hope that the candidates talked about tonight from our personal standpoint it ' s criminal justice . I kept people who can ' t look at TV animal that blacks with skewed to walk run and own community . There ' s a very serious situation we ' ve got communities and I would lose money issues of race . It would bring people ago we don ' t have people come and ago . Didn ' t didn ' t really want to richness and challenges and I think race issues promote justice . FairPlay economics almost think them registering to me is from justice thank you so much going I appreciate it . You just heard from wing for one of the co chairs . Of the brown a black form of course happening tonight right behind me I ' m ABC ' s Josh task will have full coverage our whole team who covers Hillary Clinton . Bernie Sanders mart O ' Malley everyone will be here . To give you a wrap of the questions the moments that matter and should be pretty interesting because again not a debate just a candidate for moderator to 25 minute conversation . You ' ll be able to watch that on fusion dot net they ' ll be live stream the whole thing sell for now and ABC ' s Josh Haskell in DeMulling Drake University . And . I . A I . Or . And . And a it ' s .
