47 million people traveling for Thanksgiving also faced another challenge tonight the weather . Parts of nineteen states in the path and with Thanksgiving storm . Take a look the map says it all the west slammed with snow high winds ice the storm marching east the vast majority of those Americans driving this Thanksgiving . And the driving is treacherous slow moving traffic white out conditions in parts of California . ABC ' s clay sand dealt with the new images as the Pinkston storm hits . Tonight they ' ll weather threat he ' s not taking a holiday spilling on BZ California highways dust storms blinding drivers in Salt Lake City . Thanksgiving storms are bringing big helpings of ice and water a winter mass of snow and sleet from the Great Lakes to the plains and California and Oregon have more than a foot of snow in some places along with rashes and spin outs . So they decide here what if your teens on seeking make you know . Safe is fed up there . In Washington State China and waves . Winds knocking out power to 50000 . This falling tree nearly killed Heather Adams like a community coming two seconds later we might not be here in Colorado the Chaudhry family is leaving early . We just want to be and not have to be on the rooms we don ' t have to . To beat the storm on their twelve hour drive from Denver to Dallas . And Tom the big concern now is freezing drizzle that forecasters say could coat the highways in a dangerous layer of black ice from here in Colorado all the way to Iowa Tom . That black ice so dangerous OK Clayton think you slip tract that thinks giving storm ABC ' s chief meteorologist ginger here is here with more . Into what you tell us how much start at the map because you ' ve got CL a winter storm warnings advisories watches and even an ice storm warning . In the Texas Panhandle that ' s for up to half inch of ice that adds up on power lines not just roadways timing out for you . Denver tomorrow Thanksgiving happens right you ' re eating dinner at 6 o ' clock that ' s when you get three to six inches there . Look at the icy mess on the backs and that cold front anywhere from central Iowa . Back into the Texas Panhandle it gets very heavy . In early Friday morning I think those folks that are traveling I 35 conference flash flooding . All the way up to Tulsa a leading look at how much ice and snow accumulates . Will be tracking it throughout the week and then OK ginger thank you so much .
