Top Mitch McConnell aide leaving the Hill
John Ashbrook, a top aide to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, is leaving Capitol Hill after more than 10 years. The staff director of the Senate Republican Communications Center and a key to the GOP’s messaging strategy, Ashbrook is expected to depart the GOP leader’s office in February. A fixture in the halls of the Capitol, Ashbrook is credited with helping launch the communications center in 2007, a centralized messaging hub that goes toe-to-toe on a daily basis with its Democratic counterpart, the Democratic Policy and Communications Committee. Story Continued Below “Ashbrook is an incredibly talented guy. He was instrumental to winning the majority and he’ll play a big role in our effort to build upon that success,” McConnell said of his longtime aide, who for several consecutive elections took leave from McConnell’s staff to work on the campaign trail. A replacement for Ashbrook is expected to be announced in the coming days, aides said. Josh Holmes, McConnell’s former chief of staff, said that Ashbrook helped boost the GOP communications bullpen past the “natural tension” between the messaging arm and the more well-established Senate Republican Conference, another key cog in the Capitol’s messaging wars. Ashbrook declined to disclose his next gig but is expected to continue to work in GOP political circles — and McConnell Land — after eight years in McConnell’s office and work on four successful GOP campaigns: Two McConnell reelect efforts and the Senate wins of Rand Paul of Kentucky and Jeff Flake of Arizona. McConnell’s current chief of staff Brian McGuire said Ashbrook’s skills are likely to “instantly endear him to everybody he meets” at his next gig. Sen. Rob Portman (R-Ohio) gave Ashbrook his first job on Capitol Hill as his driver in 2004, when Portman was in the House. The two still talk frequently, a rarity on the Hill. “What can I say? He’s like the most honest, high-integrity guy in the Capitol. So I’m sorry to be losing him,” Portman said. “When he worked for me he had long hair, it came down like this in kind of a swoop. That’s how long ago it was.” Ashbrook’s departure from the Hill reflects that it’s a good time to be a well-connected Republican. The GOP controls both chambers of Congress for the first time since 2007 and several other longtime senior Republican aides are expected to announce new jobs off the Hill over the next few weeks.