Doubling down on 'middle-class' economics
Which does the public care about more: Cutting spending? Or “middle-class economics”? Those are the battle lines for the next year, starting this week. In the budget he’s releasing Monday, President Barack Obama is betting that Americans prefer “middle-class economics” to reducing the federal deficit. Since short-term deficits are down, the logic goes, most Americans will be less worried about them — and more interested in middle-class tax breaks and more spending on new benefits like free community college. Story Continued Below He’s also sure that Americans hate the automatic budget cuts known as the “sequester” as much as he does, and will rally to his call to get rid of it — especially if they can have the middle-class goodies instead. Republicans in Congress, however, are betting that most of the public is still more worried about long-term spending problems — especially since the deficits will start rising again in a few years — and that they can beat back all the catchy middle-class economics talk with tried-and-true promises to cut spending and fight tax hikes. Obama’s $4 trillion budget would produce a $474 billion deficit for fiscal year 2016, rising to $639 billion in 2025. But it’s designed to keep annual deficits stable in relation to the nation’s economic output. The deficit would amount to about 2.5 percent of the Gross Domestic Product in 2016, and it would end up in the same place in 2025 even though the dollar amount is higher, according to a source familiar with the budget details. And the budget would reduce the long-term debt slightly compared to the economy: It would start at 75 percent of GDP in 2016 and ease down to 73.3 percent in 2025. Obama’s budget will provide the first detailed look at his proposals to help working spouses, parents with child care needs, and families with college costs — as well as a plan to use taxes on foreign earnings to help pay for the nation’s infrastructure needs. It will also spell out how he’d use $74 billion in extra spending to boost support for national priorities like manufacturing, defense and medical research. He’s been rolling it out piece by piece, just like he did with his State of the Union proposals a few weeks ago. The latest details emerged Sunday: a one-time 14 percent tax on foreign earnings, and a 19 percent tax on future corporate profits overseas, to help pay for $478 billion in infrastructure repairs over six years. In case you didn’t hear him talk about his new slogan enough in the State of the Union, the budget is where Obama will start shouting “MIDDLE CLASS ECONOMICS,” with a bullhorn. But will his side prevail? There’s certainly some risk for Obama, as he found when he got pounded by Republicans over his now-abandoned plan to get some of the money for his proposals by taxing “529” college savings plans. And he has to make sure he doesn’t turn off moderate swing voters by playing down deficits too much as he fires up the Democratic base. That doesn’t make it a good fight for Republicans to have, though. Some are warning that the GOP will have to respond by promoting its own middle-class proposals — like the ones outlined in a “reform conservative” book called “Room to Grow” — and not just talk about slashing spending. “The Republican Party institutionally has a problem with the middle class, and they need to deal with it,” said Pete Wehner, a senior fellow at the Ethics and Public Policy Center and a leader of the “reform conservative” movement. “I don’t think they should jettison their concern for fiscal sanity. I just think they’ve got to broaden their message, their bandwidth, a lot.” White House officials are confident that Obama will have the upper hand. They say the new budget will still address the long-term fiscal problems — and even bring down the debt in the later years of the budget — because the math will still work out between the spending and the new tax revenues Obama’s proposals would raise. That’s an approach they say they’ve used in Obama’s past budgets, and they’ll do it again this year. Independent pollsters say there are no public surveys that test a head-to-head match-up between middle-class economics and deficit concerns, but the recent polls that have been taken suggest that neither party should feel too cocky. The public may be less concerned about the deficit than it was during the height of Obama’s budget battles with House Republicans, but it’s not as if Americans don’t care about it anymore. A Pew Research Center poll in January found that 64 percent of Americans say the budget deficit is a top national priority, down from 72 percent in 2013, when public concern over the deficit reached its peak. Yet Obama did well when he outlined his middle-class proposals in the State of the Union address. According to a CNN/ORC poll taken after the speech, 61 percent of the public thought his proposals to help middle-class Americans would be very or somewhat effective; just 37 percent thought they would be ineffective. That doesn’t mean everyone buys into the focus on the middle class, though. A Fox News poll released after the State of the Union found that 61 percent of Americans prefer to improve the economy for everyone, while just 35 percent want to target the middle class. White House officials insist Obama’s budget isn’t going to present middle-class economics and deficit concerns as an either/or battle. In fact, Obama is suggesting that he’ll find ways to pay for the higher spending so it doesn’t just create more deficits. “If Congress joins me, we can make sure that ending sequestration is fully paid for by cutting inefficient spending and closing tax loopholes,” Obama wrote in a Huffington Post op-ed. Still, Obama and his aides clearly have been shifting their spotlight to middle-class concerns, and they’re happy to spike the football on the declining short-term deficits, which are about to drop to their lowest level since 2007. Democrats say the easing of the deficits gives Obama an opening to argue that there’s no need to keep squeezing domestic spending. “The reason they’re so low is that we’ve been underinvesting in America’s priorities,” especially infrastructure, education and scientific research, said Chris Van Hollen of Maryland, the top Democrat on the House Budget Committee. “Shortchanging those investments is bad for the middle class.”