Jim Parsons: From Shy Texas Kid to Hollywood Superstar
With a new star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame and a wax figure on the way to Madame Tussauds, ET went for a trip down memory lane in the life of Jim Parsons for a look at how he went from a nice Texas kid to Hollywood superstar. NEWS: Double Emmy Nominee Jim Parsons Talks Big Bang Theory  "Jim is a perfect example of how a dream can come true, " the actor's mom Judy told ET in 2010. Jim's mom and his sister, Julie, took ET back to Jim's high school Klein Oak in Spring, Texas, where he got his start doing school plays.  "I wasn't the coolest person in school by any measure, but I didn't have a bad time either, " Jim told ET in 2010.  "I luckily never experienced a wedgie. " NEWS: Backstage at Jim Parsons' First SNL Hosting Gig!  After high school, the 41-year-old Golden Globe winner graduated from the University of Houston and later completed his master's degree at the University of San Diego in 2001, studying in its graduate program with the Old Globe Theatre. Jim's big break came in 2007 with The Big Bang Theory, playing theoretical physicist Sheldon Cooper. Since that fateful casting he has won four Emmys, starred on Broadway in The Normal Heart and also appeared in HBO's production of Larry Kramer's play.  "It's insanely intense to be a part of a project like this, " Jim told ET about the TV movie in 2014.  "It feels like you actually went and fought something together. On Wednesday, Jim was honored with the 2,545th star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. NEWS: Big Bang Theory Cast Goes to Prom!   "Jim's fans have been anxiously awaiting this well-deserved star ceremony and they will get a big bang out of seeing our recipient receiving this honor! " said Ana Martinez, producer of the Walk of Fame ceremonies. Click the video for a sneak peek at Jim's wax figure, which will be at Madame Tussauds in Orlando on May 4. There were more than 250 measurements taken for the lifelike figure and Jim donated the clothes on it.