GOP chairmen to lead task force to develop Obamacare alternative
Three powerful committee chairmen — including Rep. Paul Ryan — will lead a working group to develop an alternative to Obamacare, the House Republicans’ most serious attempt thus far to develop their health care reform package, according to GOP sources. Ryan of Wisconsin, chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, will work with Energy and Commerce Chairman Fred Upton of Michigan and Education and Workforce Chairman John Kline of Minnesota to develop the health care plan. House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy of California will unveil the task force this afternoon, GOP sources said. Story Continued Below The trio of GOP chairmen will also develop a strategy for Republicans if the Supreme Court strikes down the Obamacare subsidies as part of the King v. Burwell case. That decision is expected to come down this summer. Republicans have long been criticized for endless attempts to repeal the health care law without a plan to replace it. In fact, next week, the GOP will again pass a bill to repeal President Barack Obama’s signature legislative achievement, although this time it will include instructions to committees to develop a replacement. McCarthy has been talking for years with key lawmakers about what a Republican health care plan should look like. Republicans have always complained about what they call “top down” mandates outlined in Obamacare, especially provisions that impact small businesses. They have pitched “market driven” alternatives. Last Congress, then-Majority Leader Eric Cantor (R-Va.) tried to push committee chairs to develop an alternative, but the committee leaders and key lawmaker clashed. But this year, McCarthy and Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio) are keenly aware that the Supreme Court could undermine the Affordable Care Act, and they want to have an alternative in place. The House GOP is seriously split on almost every issue, and it’s an open question as to whether they’ll be able to coalesce around any plan. Ryan’s involvement in the group does give Republicans some home — he’s been able to persuade the GOP to follow his plans on numerous occasions. The King v. Burwell case centers on whether consumers in states with federally run health-care exchanges can receive subsidies for their plans. If the high court rules against the Obama administration, millions of consumers could lose tax credits, jeopardizing their health coverage.