Zoolander Returns! Ben Stiller & Owen Wilson Walk the Valentino Runway as Derek and Hansel
Those lucky enough to get an invite into Valentino's Fall 2015 Fashion Show during Paris Fashion Week on Monday were also in for a huge surprise -- the triumphant return of Owen Wilson and Ben Stiller's beloved Zoolander characters Derek and Hansel. Stiller, 49, and Wilson, 46, walked the high-fashion brand's runway totally in character, with Wilson even adding a show-stealing jacket drop to close out the show. Check out  the amazing video below for all the  "blue steel " you can possibly handle. VIDEO: Owen Wilson Teases 'Zoolander 2' with Ellen DeGeneres  Stiller and Wilson were on-hand to drum up anticipation for Zoolander 2, the long-awaited sequel to the 2001 hit, which is reportedly scheduled to start filming in Rome this spring. Jennifer Aniston's fiancé, Justin Theroux -- whose previous writing credits include co-writing 2008's Oscar-nominated comedy Tropic Thunder, which Stiller directed -- wrote the script. Variety reports that the film is set to hit theaters on Feb. 12, 2016.  "Apparently Derek and Hansel have come to terms on #Zoolander2, " Stiller Instagrammed on Tuesday, confirming the sequel.  "I think the idea in the beginning of the movie is that it's 10 years later, and Derek and Hansel are literally forgotten, " Stiller told MTV about Zoolander 2's plot.  "Nobody remembers who they are, so they have to reinvent themselves. …  In the fashion world, if you go away for a year, it's changed -- it just happens so quickly. " One thing for sure is that he wants Will Ferrell to reprise his memorable role as Mugatu.  "If Will says yes, he definitely has to be part of it, " he said.  "To me, Mugatu is one of the classic screen villains of all time. " On Monday, Stiller and Wilson also got to hang out backstage with legendary Vogue Editor-In-Chief Anna Wintour herself, posing for this hilarious shot.  "Speak no evil. See no evil. Hear no evil. Derek #Zoolander and #Hansel are back! " Vogue Instagrammed on Tuesday. PHOTOS: Selena Gomez Looks Like a 'Zoolander' Character  In 2013, Stiller's Tropic Thunder co-star Tom Cruise praised The Secret Life of Walter Mitty star at his handprint-footprint ceremony at Hollywood's famed TCL Chinese Theatre, calling him a  "great artist. " Watch below: