Neil Patrick Harris unlikely to host the Oscars again
He's hosted the Emmys, Tonys and Oscars, but just one awards show away (Grammys) from being an EGOT host, Neil Patrick Harris admits that the 87th annual Academy Awards took a lot out of him."I don't know that my family nor my soul could take it," Harris told The Huffington Post. "It's a beast. It was fun to check off the list, but for the amount of time spent and the understandable opinionated response, I don't know that it's a delightful balance to do every year or even again."Photos: Oscars red-carpet star sightings63PhotosOscars 2015 highlightsThe biggest moments from the 87th Academy AwardsThe former "How I Met Your Mother" star's hosting stint received some mixed reviews -- many loving his opening number, but criticizing him for mispronouncing some of the stars' names -- but the actor says he didn't pay them much attention. "I didn't keep up with it obsessively, but it was interesting to see just what people thought landed and didn't," he said of the reviews. "It's so difficult for one who's simply watching the show to realize just how much time and concession and compromise and explanation has gone into almost every single thing. Every joke. Wording of joke. Placement of joke. Canceling of joke. Embellishment for just one line."Video: Kevin Hart to Neil Patrick Harris: I'm coming back to host the OscarsNeil Patrick Harris speaks onstage during the 87th Annual Academy Awards at Dolby Theatre on Feb. 22, 2015, in Hollywood, California.Kevin Winter/Getty ImagesFurther explaining his hosting choices, he added, "My job was to try and keep things as light and specific to this year's set of films as possible. And if people are critical of that, it's a big giant platform, so I would assume that they would be."As for how he thinks he did at the big show, Harris was pleased with how it all turned out. "I felt while we were doing it that people were enjoying themselves more and more, so for that I'm happy."Would you like to see NPH host the Oscars again?