Senators launching push to end Cuba travel ban
A bipartisan group of eight senators is making a major push to abolish travel bans between Cuba and the United States. Sen. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.) and an equal number of Senate Democratic and Republican co-sponsors introduced legislation on Thursday that would end the travel restrictions for U.S. citizens and legal residents of Cuba. The bill would also end prohibitions on financial transactions associated with travel between the two nations. Story Continued Below The bill may face stiff headwinds in the Senate among Republicans, though Majority Whip John Cornyn (R-Texas) did not dismiss it outright and said he was still “studying” the legislation. Flake said the most logical path to a vote was attaching the proposal to a spending bill later this year, and Sen. Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) predicted the farm lobby will put major muscle behind the bill given that it could help open a new market to U.S. produce. Though some of the bill’s sponsors would like to go further and eliminate the entire Cuban embargo, the Freedom to Travel to Cuba Act is viewed by backers as legislation that could garner broader support than simply knocking down all existing barriers between the U.S. and Cuba. “I would favor lifting the entire embargo, myself. There’s still a difference of opinion on the entire embargo. There is overwhelming support here, in Florida, all across the country … for lifting the travel ban,” Flake said. “This is something we think can move ahead.” In addition to Flake and Leahy, the bill is supported by GOP Sens. Jerry Moran of Kansas, John Boozman of Arkansas and Mike Enzi of Wyoming as well as Democratic Sens. Sheldon Whitehouse of Rhode Island, Tom Udall of New Mexico and Dick Durbin of Illinois, the No. 2 Democratic leader. A bipartisan companion bill from Reps. Jim McGovern (D-Mass.) and Mark Sanford (R-S.C.) is expected next week, and Flake predicted a torrent of further supporters could be expected in the near future in both chambers. “It’s time for a new policy. A policy that is proven to work,” Durbin said. “I think we’re going to see dramatic change in Cuba if there’s more travel, exchange and business between our two countries.” But as soon as the bill was introduced, opposition in some GOP circles instantly hardened. Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) said there should be no reward for “hardcore communists” and warned that the Castro brothers’ regime could seize the opportunity to “export their brand of communism.” Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) blasted the proposal and said the U.S. should not be giving Cuba “all this relief.” “Jeff is a good guy and he’s been consistent” on Cuba, Graham said of Flake. “And so have I.” Flakes’s response? “This is a prohibition on Americans, not Cubans. That’s why we’re going forward.” While President Barack Obama has announced normalization of some relations between the two countries, congressional action is needed to fully end barriers between the United States and Cuba. Many Senate Republicans, including Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky and potential presidential contender Marco Rubio of Florida, are highly skeptical of relaxing travel and trade prohibitions with Cuba.