Nick Gordon Threatens Suicide on 'Dr. Phil': 'My Pain Is Horrible'
ET's Kevin Frazier sat down with Dr. Phil to discuss his interview with Bobbi Kristina Brown's boyfriend Nick Gordon that turned into an  "emotionally-charged intervention. " NEWS: Bobbi Kristina Brown Turns 22, Remains in Coma   "I went to Atlanta to interview Nick, " Dr. Phil told Kevin.  "When I got there the interview became an intervention. " According to Dr. Phil, warning signs began before the cameras started rolling.  "It comes time to do the interview. He's not there, " Dr. Phil recalled.  "I go knock on his door, and he opens the door and freaks. He starts yelling, screaming. " NEWS: Bobbi Kristina Brown Incident Under Criminal Investigation  Dr. Phil does not believe that Nick was sober for the interview, where Nick's mother Michelle was also present, and he described Nick's erratic behavior.  "He would go from being able to talk like we're talking right now to just all of a sudden collapsing and just wailing, and then he would pull out his phone and turn on a Whitney [Houston] song and just start crying, " Dr. Phil said.  "What he's saying is, 'Look, I feel a huge amount of guilt here.' "  "My pain is horrible, " Gordon told Dr. Phil in their interview.  "My heart hurts. I have panic attacks. " Nick also addressed suicide threats that he reportedly made, telling Dr. Phil,  "If anything happens to Krissy, I will. " NEWS: Coroner Disputes Claims That Nick Gordon Performed CPR on Whitney Houston  In the interview airing Wednesday, Dr. Phil offers Nick guidance as, according to the show's press release, he  "battles drug and alcohol addiction. " Nick stormed out of the sit-down and subsequently checked into rehab.  "My first consideration is I don't want him dead. I don't want him overdosed, " Dr. Phil said.  "I want to save this kid's life ... At this point we do have him in rehab. How long he stays? We'll see. " NEWS: Bobbi Kristina Brown Reportedly Placed on Ventilator  Bobbi Kristina remains on life support in an Atlanta hospital, and on her 22nd birthday on March 4, the family asked for prayers as she continues to fight for her life. Nick has yet to see Bobbi Kristina since her hospitalization, as he and her family have not been able to come to an agreement on his visitation terms.