Us Weekly apologizes for Kendall Jenner story
Us Weekly has issued a retraction for a story it published this week boasting the headline: "Kendall Jenner Breaks Silence on Bruce Jenner's Transition: 'I Will Always Love My Dad.'"The article featured an alleged interview with Kendall Jenner in which she opens up about her father -- saying she will love him whether he's a man or a woman.Shortly after the piece surfaced, Kendall Jenner, 19, took to Twitter slamming the story:how is it legal for someone to "quote" someone and publish it if in fact you never said what was quoted.— Kendall Jenner (@KendallJenner) March 18, 2015Shame on US Weekly for making up quotes. I NEVER said those things. I never spoke to them.— Kendall Jenner (@KendallJenner) March 18, 2015The article no longer appears on UsMagazine.com, but a retraction and apology do.22PhotosBruce JennerA look at the Olympian and television personality since his rise to fame in the 1970s"The interview was allegedly conducted by an independent freelance journalist at the Saturday, March 14, taping of Comedy Central's roast of Justin Bieber in Los Angeles. When Ms. Jenner denied, via Twitter, that the interview took place, Us Weekly immediately reached out to the freelance reporter," a statement explains. "He stood by the interview, and continues to maintain that the quotes are accurate. However, after attempting to reconfirm his account, editors of Us have concerns about the veracity of this interview and the circumstances under which it was obtained. We would like to retract the story entirely and have removed it from our website. We sincerely apologize to Ms. Jenner and her family."Bruce Jenner's mom, Esther Jenner, recently spoke to The Associated Press about her son, saying, "He said, 'I want to be honest about my identity and I know this is coming out in the press.' He started by saying, 'We need to have a long, serious talk.' I am at peace with what he is and what he's doing.According to reports last month, Bruce Jenner, 65, will sit down with Diane Sawyer to discuss transitioning from male to female.In more recent news, Bruce Jenner's plans to chronicle his transition from male to female in an E! docuseries have been put on hold, according to multiple sources.