Prince Harry to leave the Armed Forces after a decade
Prince Harry announced Monday that he's leaving the Armed Forces in June after 10 years of service."Inevitably most good things come to an end and I am at a crossroads in my military career," the British royal said on Monday.25PhotosPrince HarryPrince William's younger brother is all grown up"After a decade of service, moving on from the Army has been a really tough decision," Harry explained in a statement. "I consider myself incredibly lucky to have had the chance to do some very challenging jobs and have met many fantastic people in the process. From learning the hard way to stay onside with my Colour Sergeant at Sandhurst, to the incredible people I served with during two tours in Afghanistan -- the experiences I have had over the last 10 years will stay with me for the rest of my life. For that I will always be hugely grateful."Harry, 30, will complete a few more military duties, though, before he wraps this year. Throughout April and May, he plans to serve four weeks with the Australian Defence Force. He's expected to spend time at Army Barracks in Darwin, Perth and Sydney where he will participate in unit-based activities, training exercises and domestic deployments. After completing his operational service with the Armed Forces in June, Harry will head to Africa for volunteer work focused on learning how local communities in sub-Saharan Africa are working to protect and conserve their natural resources and wildlife. This fall, he will work with Ministry of Defence's Recovery Capability Programme. Harry says he will continue to wear his uniform and "mix with fellow servicemen and women" for the rest of his life.As for the future? Prince William's younger brother is mulling his options, saying he's excited about the possibilities. "So while I am finishing one part of my life, I am getting straight into a new chapter. I am really looking forward to it," he said. Harry spent more than three years training for and becoming an Apache helicopter pilot. His active duty included two tours that brought him to the front lines in Afghanistan. The prince also brought attention to wounded veterans from Great Britain, the U.S. and British allies.