The Story Behind Amber Rose's Scandalous Thong Selfies and Twerking Videos
When she's not feuding with Khloe Kardashian or hitting back at Kanye West, model Amber Rose is best-known for some seriously sexy selfies. Here's just a taste of her  "break the Internet " attempts in case you've forgotten. PHOTOS: Celebs In Their Underwear   But the curvy 31-year-old can't take all the credit for her headline-making selfies -- a lot of that would have to go to her 25-year-old assistant Benji Carlisle. Benji just opened up to Cosmopolitan about his life as Amber's  "right-hand man, " and gives the scoop behind all those much-loved lingerie pics and twerking videos.  "There's not one place I don't go with her, " Benji, who refers to Amber as  "Miss Rose, " tells the magazine.  "Literally, if you see her, you're probably two feet away from seeing me, because I'm everywhere she's at. " He tells the story behind one of her most popular selfies, Amber sporting a beyond-racy G-string monokini that got 522,000 likes.  "She was on her way to go tan [when that happened], because she tans every two days. And I was like, 'Miss Rose, baby, you can't just go tan in that, you definitely have to take a picture,' " he recalls.   " … I'm like, 'Yes. Miss Rose, just trust me. Let me take a couple pictures. You don't even have to post them, this is just for you because you look so good right now.' And I took those pictures and she was like, 'Whoa, Benji. I see what you were talking about.' "  "I'm usually the mastermind behind all -- I can't say all the pictures--  but I'm usually the mastermind behind the photos or videos that get controversy, " he adds.  " ... I shot almost every twerking video. " And it turns out the process behind their videos is not all that thought-out.  "It [starts] like, 'Benji, I feel like dancing.' We dance all the time -- if we're not [hiking] at Runyon Canyon, we're dancing because that's all workout, " he explains.  "She's like, 'Benji, I feel like making a video.' And my response is like, 'OK, Miss Rose. What song should I listen to?' Then she'll be like, 'You ready?' Then I do it. " That's not to say Amber -- who Benji says  "loses zero sleep over the haters " -- doesn't have a very strong opinion on her often times controversial social media posts.  "She's very particular -- if you take a picture of her, she likes a certain angle, " he shares.  " ... She's in control of her own social media. But I would say I'm the cheerleader of the group. " And though he admits that Amber's jaw-dropping physique takes exercise, Benji -- who lives with Amber -- also reveals her love for cooking comfort food.  "She cooks for herself, " he surprisingly reveals.  "She makes cheesesteaks, she loves fixing anything Italian -- meatballs, noodles, pasta bolognese. " PHOTO: Amber Rose's New Butt Selfie Is Wow-Worthy   Last month, Amber’s ex, Kanye West, dissed her in an interview with the radio program The Breakfast Club, when he said that he had to  "take 30 showers " before dating Kim Kardashian. Watch the explosive interview below: