The Best, Worst and Weirdest Dances From the 'DWTS' Season 20 Premiere
Dancing With the Stars is back for its 20th season, which features a whole new cast of talented, entertaining, sexy, and inspiring stars and athletes to find who America and the panel of judges will decide is the best ballroom dancer.  PHOTOS: The Complete List: 'Dancing with the Stars' Winners But with a cast as eclectic as Redfoo, Suzanne Somers, Chris Soules, Charlotte McKinney, and Patti LaBelle, you know there is going to be a wide selection of heartwarming dances, and bizarre, WTF moments. So here are some of the best, worst, and weirdest things that happened on DWTS’ Season 20 premiere. THE BEST  Riker Lynch Rocks Out  The Glee star and his pro partner turned up the fun to an 11 when they rocked out at a faux-concert to  "What I Like About You. " But as the judges pointed out, Riker's going to have to work on his technical precision a lot in the coming dances. Patti LaBelle Cries  Patti LaBelle is one of the most celebrated singers of all time, and she recently appeared on FX's American Horror Story: Freak Show. While Patti admits dancing has never in her repertoire, the 70-year-old star pulled out all the stops. The love she got from the crowd and the judges brought her to tears. Noah Galloway Inspires  While many people may not have known who Noah Galloway was before his appearance on DWTS, the Army veteran and double amputee delivered a massively inspiring performance that may make him the surprise star of the season. Rumer Has It  Rumer Willis was great, and there's just nothing more you can really say. As it turns out, she's funny, pretty, smart, talented -- and she can dance. She's easily the front-runner at the outset of season 20. THE WORST  Charlotte McKinney Doesn't Want It to Be About Her Boobs  Charlotte McKinney is a model best known for her nearly-nude Carl's Jr. Super Bowl commercial. Charlotte started her pre-recorded video by saying she wanted the world to know she's more than just her boobs -- then she (and the producers, obviously) decided to focus primarily on her boobs and boob-related problems for the rest of the episode. Redfoo Just Does a LMFAO Music Video  Redfoo's dance was fun, like most things LMFAO puts gets their hands on, but it wasn't much more than the rhythmic shuffling he does in most of his music videos. Once you strip away the quirky background dancers and goofy costumes, is there much more he's going to be able to offer? THE WEIRDEST  Michael Sam's Pasted Smile  Michael Sam and Peta Murgatroyd performed a really fun dance set to the song of the year  "Uptown Funk. " But why did he need to have that creepy fake smile the whole time? Tony and Suzanne Get Physical  Suzanne Somers is best known for Three's Company and her Thighmaster workouts. This week, Tony Dovolani decided to model everything after her workout videos, and it ended up being a messy neon and mesh insanity. Demi and Bruce Are Uncomfortably Awkward  Demi Moore and Bruce Willis showed up to support their daughter, and awkwardly sat apart from each other, with Bruce one row in front and a few seats down. Even Don Johnson and Melanie Griffith managed to sit together when Dakota Johnson hosted SNL. Chris Soules' Shiny Country Shirt  Obviously The Bachelor star was going to play up his country roots -- because country stars and music work like gangbusters on DWTS -- but did he need all the shiny glitter on the plaid shirt? Seemed to take away from the down home image.  VIDEO: 'Dancing with the Stars' Season 20 Celebrities Revealed -- and a 'DWTS' Pro Returns! FINAL SCORES  Rumer Willis & Valentin Chmerkovskiy - 32  Riker Lynch & Allison Holker - 31  Nastia Liukin & Derek Hough - 30  Robert Herjavec & Kym Johnson - 28  Noah Galloway & Sharna Burgess - 26  Michael Sam & Peta Murgatroyd - 26  Chris Soules & Witney Carson - 26  Patti LaBelle & Artem Chigvintsev - 25  Willow Shields & Mark Ballas - 25  Suzanne Somers & Tony Dovolani - 25  Charlotte McKinney & Keoikantse Motsepe - 22  Redfoo & Emma Slater - 22