Michele Bachmann filming Sharknado 3 in D.C.
Last Updated Mar 11, 2015 2:46 PM EDTFormer congresswoman and onetime presidential candidate Michele Bachmann was spotted in Washington, D.C. today, where she was reportedly filming scenes for the movie "Sharknado 3."Huffington Post reporter Igor Bobic snapped a photo of the Bachmann acting for a camera outside of the White House.Former Rep. Michele Bachmann filming Sharknado 3 outside White House pic.twitter.com/IoGBJOaTb4— Igor Bobic (@igorbobic) March 11, 2015According to Bobic's tweets, Bachmann was playing herself as a congresswoman in the movie. In the scene, she tells a reporter about Congress' reaction to the tornado of sharks (i.e. "sharknado") for which the trilogy is named.Bachmann was apparently playing her former self. Said while filming that she had to go vote.— Igor Bobic (@igorbobic) March 11, 2015"I believe they are growing in size, Congress has to take this seriously," Bachmann says.Mark Cuban to play the president in "Sharknado 3"Ian Ziering: "Sharknado 3" reads like a "$200 million blockbuster"Describing why she agreed to participate in the film, Bachmann told Bobic, "It wasn't anything offensive, it was just fun."PlayVideoEntertainmentIan Ziering talks "Sharknado 3," "The Celebrity Apprentice"Actor tells CBS News' Lauren Moraski why the script for the third "Sharknado" reads like a "$200 million blockbuster" and how his time on "The Ce...She reportedly described it as "a total stretch."The D.C. Office of Motion Picture and T.V. confirmed to DCist that the movie is being filmed in D.C., but could not share specific details about when and where other scenes are being filmed. It was an eventful day for the production. In addition to the Bachmann shoot, members of the crew walked off the shoot as part of a labor-related protest.#Strikenado hits DC: @IATSE members walked off set of #Sharknado3 in solidarity with striking LA crew #1u pic.twitter.com/mrbfGB4HC4— AFL-CIO (@AFLCIO) March 11, 2015"We will not forget how The Asylum treated their employees when they asked for the same union benefits and protections that were provided to the crew on Sharknado 2," the Assistant Director of the IATSE Motion Picture Department, told Deadline. "It is employees working for anti-worker companies like The Asylum who need the enforceable working conditions and protections of a union agreement the most."Just over a week after the watery Syfy sequel was hit by labor action, IATSE has taken its bark and bite to the nation's capital. Shooting on Sharknado 3 in front of the White House this morning was interrupted by picketers. All the IATSE members on the Asylum produced shoot walked off the job, the union says. "Representatives of the IATSE and its local unions will be present whenever and wherever this production attempts to film in and around Washington, D.C.," said the union's Dan Mahoney today.