Chris Evans and Chris Pratt visit Seattle Children's Hospital to lift spirits
Captain America says he met some true super heroes.Chris Evans and Chris Pratt brought some happiness to Seattle Children's Hospital.The two actors made a Super Bowl bet that the loser would visit a children's hospital in the winning team's city. And while Pratt, the Seattle Seahawks fan, lost the bet and already stopped at a Boston organization, the duo decided to extend the goodwill to Seattle as well. Pics: Chris Evans and Chris Pratt photobomb fansThe visit wouldn't be complete without a real superhero so Evans was sure to break out his Captain America gear. Don't worry, the Marvel actors also gave out action figures, too.Thank you to @Marvel for sending gifts for our patients. They were thrilled to receive them! pic.twitter.com/iCOXPGREjb— Seattle Children's (@seattlechildren) March 8, 2015The hospital thanked them on Twitter and shared photos of the smiling children. "The kids were beyond excited to meet Captain America and Star-Lord," a tweet reads.The kids were beyond excited to meet Captain America and Star-Lord. #TwitterBowl pic.twitter.com/SSkdJk3pwW— Seattle Children's (@seattlechildren) March 8, 2015Meeting Captain America and Star-Lord is an experience our patients will always remember. #TwitterBowl pic.twitter.com/iDJWJ4UGbs— Seattle Children's (@seattlechildren) March 8, 2015A superhero size THANK YOU to @prattprattpratt & @ChrisEvans for visiting our patients today! #TwitterBowl pic.twitter.com/qgo0kKC1AV— Seattle Children's (@seattlechildren) March 8, 2015Chris Evans wins Super Bowl showdownEvans and Pratt were also thankful for the experience. "Met some TRUE super heroes! Feeling inspired, blessed, touched. Thank you w all my heart," Evans wrote on his Twitter.AMAZING day at @seattlechildren w @prattprattpratt. Met some TRUE super heroes! Feeling inspired, blessed, touched. Thank you w all my heart— Chris Evans (@ChrisEvans) March 8, 2015On Feb. 6, they visited Christopher's Haven in Boston, where Pratt donned his "Guardians of the Galaxy" Star-Lord costume.