Jim DeMint meets with Mitch McConnell to pitch ‘opportunity’ agenda
Jim DeMint paid a personal visit Thursday to an old rival: Mitch McConnell. DeMint, a former South Carolina senator and now president of The Heritage Foundation, met one-on-one with McConnell in the GOP leader’s Capitol suite as DeMint pitched Heritage’s “opportunity” agenda. Story Continued Below Things appeared to go over more smoothly with McConnell than they did last month with the House, where DeMint was confronted over his sister organization’s strict ratings of lawmakers’ conservatism. “He’s a good conservative,” DeMint said in an interview as he left the leader’s office. “He’s just in a tough leadership position here.” The session was part of McConnell’s regular meetings with conservatives. A mischief-making conservative who fueled GOP divisions during his time in the Senate, DeMint emerged from the meeting with a positive assessment of McConnell as majority leader. DeMint and McConnell have long been at odds over both campaign and legislative strategy, with the DeMint-founded Senate Conservatives Fund trying over and over to knock off McConnell’s Republican senators, including McConnell himself last year. The Heritage head said he gave no advice to McConnell in the private meeting. Afterward, he praised both the majority leader and House Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio) for trying to push back against President Barack Obama’s immigration policies during the funding fight over the Department of Homeland Security. DeMint concluded that McConnell is “the man for the job” of majority leader, despite the frequent criticism from many conservative groups, including SCF, that the Kentucky Republican is a dealmaking centrist. “If there’s anybody who can clear up dysfunction and try to make the Senate work like it’s supposed to, he can do it. Because I think it probably pained him more than anything else to see the Senate kind of become a dysfunctional group,” DeMint said. “I didn’t give him any advice. I wasn’t there to give advice.” Instead, after his two-year cooling-off period since leaving the Senate expired this year, DeMint visited with McConnell to pitch The Heritage Foundation’s free market agenda, which includes pushing right-to-work laws, repealing Obamacare and cutting taxes. DeMint said McConnell was receptive and that the palace intrigue of Republican leadership in the Capitol didn’t come up. “Our job at Heritage is to stake out the right position and build public support for it so politics can move that direction. It’s not about personalities,” DeMint said. “We don’t get involved in primaries, leadership races. That’s what I talked about. We’re promoting an opportunity-for-all, favoritism-for-none agenda.”