Will Ferrell earns his place in baseball history
Will Ferrell packed a whole season of spring training into just one day, traveling to five Arizona ballparks, wearing ten different uniforms and playing all nine field positions. He was filming a comedy special for HBO and raising money for cancer charities - finding a way to turn pre-season games into something entertaining and meaningful, reports CBS News correspondent Michelle Miller.The comedian is no stranger to sports. Ferrell has raced cars in "Talladega Nights," shot hoops in "Semi-Pro" and even skating his way to victory in "Blades of Glory." Now he's earned his place in baseball history.  Ferrell dotted the Phoenix, Arizona, metro area Thursday with the help of a chopper, suiting up for 10 teams in five games.The "Saturday Night Live" alum showed off his arm in center field, but was abruptly traded mid-game to the Cubs. He was a natural third-base coach, glided effortlessly through grass playing the outfield, but his bat was no match for big-league pitching.In the night cap, the 47-year-old channeled his inner Sandy Koufax for the Dodgers. Ferrell finished  in right field for the Padres in honor of Hall-of-Fame outfielder Tony Gwynn who died of cancer last year. His teammates lauded his effort and his physical tools.  "I think he's a good clubhouse guy, he brings a lot to the table," said San Diego Padres' Cody Decker said. "I think he's got an above average chin, great hair, above-average hair, look at that thing, it's a wonderful mane."At the end of the day, Ferrell addressed the crowd."Ruth, Musial, Mantle, Will Ferrell. Who would have thought that one day, those names would be synonymous with each other. Show of hands? Scratch that, never mind," he said. "I will never forget today, unless I get hit in the head by a line drive attending a game, but I will never forget this day." Only four major leaguers have ever played all nine positions in a single game. Memorabilia from Ferrell's games will be auctioned off, with the proceeds going to Stand up to Cancer and College for Cancer. Ferrell hopes to raise $1 million for those charities.