Keep immigration riders off DHS bill, all Senate Dems say
All the Senate Democrats have a message for Republicans on funding for the Department of Homeland Security: Give us a clean bill. In a letter to be released later Tuesday, the Senate Democratic Caucus will press Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) to put up a funding bill for DHS free of provisions rolling back President Barack Obama’s executive actions on immigration or other controversial riders. Story Continued Below The fact that all members of the Senate Democratic Caucus are endorsing a clean funding bill is critical, since McConnell will need the aid of at least half a dozen Democrats to advance any legislation. In the letter, Senate Democrats also ruled out other potential Plan B’s for the DHS bill, such as passing a series of short-term funding measures – also highly opposed by Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson. “While we agree our current immigration system needs comprehensive reform, including border security enhancements, this appropriations bill is not the place for this debate,” the Senate Democrats wrote in the letter to McConnell, provided to POLITICO in advance of its release. The Republican-led House passed a funding measure for DHS earlier this month that would override Obama’s executive actions. That legislation has prompted a veto threat from the White House and almost would certainly fail to advance in the Senate. “In light of recent events in Paris, Ottawa and Australia, the threat of ISIS and the proliferation of foreign fighters that return home radicalized, DHS funding should not be tied to divisive political issues that could jeopardize this critical funding,” Democrats said. McConnell told reporters Tuesday that the DHS funding bill will come to the Senate floor next week, after senators finish work on the Keystone XL pipeline legislation. “I think we should do everything we can to persuade at least a half a dozen Democrats that they should join us to get this done,” said Sen. Roy Blunt (R-Mo.), a member of McConnell’s leadership team. “Sometimes you don’t know how these legislative battles go if you don’t have them, and we intend to have this one.” The Democrats’ letter was spearheaded by New Hampshire Sen. Jeanne Shaheen, the top Democrat on the panel that oversees DHS funding, and Maryland Sen. Barbara Mikulski, the top Democrat on the Appropriations Committee. The only Senate Democrat not to formally sign on is Harry Reid, the caucus’ leader, who stressed again last week that lawmakers must pass a Homeland Security funding bill with no strings attached. Funding for DHS runs through Feb. 27. “The message we are sending today is clear: We should not play politics with critical homeland security resources that keep our country safe,” Shaheen said. Several Senate Democrats also took to the floor Tuesday morning to demand a clean funding bill for the department, which was the only agency slapped with short-term funding under the broader appropriations measure that Congress passed in December. 