Ricky Martin, Ryan Murphy and Others Show Support For Elton John's Dolce & Gabbana Boycott
On Saturday, legendary musician Elton John announced that he is boycotting Dolce & Gabbana after the company's two founding designers publicly expressed negative views on gay parenting, saying, in part,  "You are born to a mother and a father. " Now, several big-name stars are coming forward to throw their support behind John's boycott.  NEWS: Why Elton John Is Boycotting Dolce and Gabbana Ryan Murphy, creator of Glee and American Horror Story, took to Twitter on Sunday to blast the fashion designers, calling their views  "horrifying. " When Domenico Dolce and Stefano Gabbana spoke with Panorama magazine, Dolce said,  "I call children of chemistry, synthetic children. Rented wombs, semen chosen from a catalog. "  "Livin' La Vida Loca " singer Ricky Martin, who has two children born from a surrogate mother, took umbrage with those sentiments.  "Ur voices R 2powerfull 2B spreading so much h8, " he tweeted. Al Roker, Courtney Love, and Martina Navratilova are among a number of other stars who have shown their support for John's cause and criticized Dolce & Gabbana. On Saturday, John posted a photo on Instagram calling for the boycott, writing,  "How dare you refer to my beautiful children as 'synthetic.' And shame on you for wagging your judgemental little fingers at IVF - a miracle that has allowed legions of loving people, both straight and gay, to fulfil their dream of having children. Your archaic thinking is out of step with the times, just like your fashions. I shall never wear Dolce and Gabbana ever again. #BoycottDolceGabbana " Dolce and Gabbana released a statement to the Associated Press on Sunday addressing the growing backlash.  "It was never our intention to judge other people's choices, " Gabbana said in the statement.  "We do believe in freedom and love. " According to the designers, they were just expressing their view of a family unit based on being raised in a traditional Sicilian household, which Dolce says is  "made up of a mother, a father and children. "  "I am very well aware of the fact that there are other types of families and they are as legitimate as the one I've known, " Dolce added in the statement.