Elton John vs. Dolce & Gabbana: Hollywood Reacts to the Fallout
Sir Elton John is boycotting Dolce & Gabbana along with Ricky Martin and Ryan Murphy after the company's two founding designers publicly expressed negative views on gay parenting. ET was with celebrity stylist Phillip Bloch and celebrity photographer Nigel Barker who weighed in on the controversy. NEWS: Why Elton John Is Boycotting Dolce and Gabbana   "Over the weekend I was at a party full of fashion insiders and it was all anyone was talking about. What were you hearing? Boycott, " Barker said.  "People are willing to boycott Dolce & Gabbana. They are feeling strongly about this. I feel like you have to draw a line like what side are you on. "  "The fashion world was just mortified, " Bloch told ET.  "I would definitely not put somebody in Dolce & Gabanna right now. This isn't a ban for life. Hopefully they will learn and they'll be educated and I'm sure they'll probably do some advertising campaign based around it after this. " The controversy originated from comments that Domenico Dolce and Stefano Gabbana gave to the Italian magazine Panorama. NEWS: Hollywood Shows Support For Elton John's Dolce & Gabbana Boycott   "You are born to a mother and a father. Or at least that's how it should be, " Dolce said.  "I call children of chemistry, synthetic children. Rented wombs, semen chosen from a catalog. " Gabbana added,  "The family is not a fad. In it there is a supernatural sense of belonging. " John responded via Instagram, writing,  "How dare you refer to my beautiful children as 'synthetic.' And shame on you for wagging your judgmental little fingers at IVF. " Today, the designers and former couple say  "it was never our intention to judge other people's choices. " NEWS: Elton John Falls Out of a Chair, Gracefully Recovers  Despite the effort to smooth things over, it seems that it will take more than one comment to get back in Hollywood's good graces.  "[The comments] are obscenely shocking, " The Talk's Sharon Osbourne told ET.  "When you think about millions of children all over the world that will be affected by this, it's hideous. "