Judiciary to Loretta Lynch: Expect a grilling
Loretta Lynch will set off the first major confirmation battle of the new GOP-led Senate when she goes before the Judiciary Committee this week. But the attorney general nominee also presents Republicans with a challenge — finding a way to express their ire at the Obama administration without going too far. The 55-year-old federal prosecutor will face many potential minefields when she goes before the committee on Wednesday, with senators set to grill her on issues like immigration, terrorism, war, marijuana laws and the limits of executive power. Story Continued Below But she’s also a polished, experienced lawyer who would be the nation’s first black female attorney general. Top Republicans concede she’s likely to be confirmed — unless she messes up. “I don’t think senators have to approach it differently, but I think we have to always be courteous,” said Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), a senior member of the Judiciary Committee. He added: “I think tough questions are right and we ought to ask tough questions. … But I think we should always show respect and restraint with a nomination of any president, whether Republican or a Democrat.” Hatch, the most senior Republican in the chamber, added that he expects Lynch’s nomination to clear the committee and ultimately be confirmed by the full Senate. The two days of hearings will also be the first key test for the committee’s new Republican chairman, Sen. Chuck Grassley of Iowa — known for his deliberative and thorough style, along with his obsession with congressional oversight of the administration, which he plans to raise in his questions. He also wants to ensure all senators get every last question answered from Lynch. So he’s telling her: Come rested. “Before all the Republicans get done, and maybe even this would include some Democrats, we’re going to have practically everything covered that we want to cover,” the Iowa Republican said in an interview in his Capitol office. “So, except when she needs to take time to rest or eat lunch, you know, we’re going to keep going.” Lynch, who’s now the U.S. attorney for the Eastern District of New York, is well respected on both sides of the aisle, but her confirmation fight will almost certainly spiral into a larger war between Republican lawmakers and the White House, especially on the executive actions that President Barack Obama took in November to shield millions of undocumented immigrants from deportation without input from Congress. Sen. Jeff Sessions (R-Ala.) is sure to grill Lynch on whether she thinks Obama’s immigration moves are legally defensible. Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) singled out the “abuse of power” at the Internal Revenue Service as a key issue in her confirmation hearing. Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.), a defense hawk and former Air Force attorney, plans to question Lynch on matters of war. And Sen. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.) wants to ask about Operation Streamline, a Justice Department initiative that essentially fast-tracks prosecutions of illegal border crossings en masse. Flake and fellow Arizona Republican Sen. John McCain have credited Operation Streamline with helping to bolster security at the border in Yuma County, Arizona, but federal officials have recently scaled back some prosecutions under the program. Sessions echoed conservatives’ view that the Justice Department has become too politicized under outgoing Attorney General Eric Holder. And Grassley said he has questions about prosecutorial discretion — for instance, the Justice Department’s decision in 2013 to not challenge state laws that allow for marijuana use. “There’s got to be prosecutorial discretion, and you probably don’t have the resources to prosecute every crime,” Grassley said. “But you surely don’t tell your enemies what you’re going to prosecute or not prosecute.” Lynch is also up against the wildly diverse personalities on Judiciary, packed with longtime Senate institutionalists, firebrand tea party favorites, two new Republican freshmen and at least one senator — Cruz — who’s aggressively eyeing a much broader national stage. “The only way I can manage is to make sure they don’t exceed their time,” Grassley said of how he plans to oversee how the hearings are run. “And if they ask a question, be humane in … how you ask the question and give people a chance to respond, and if they’re responding, let them answer it.” Many of these issues have already surfaced in Lynch’s private sessions with senators — a meet-and-greet effort that began not long after she was announced by Obama as his attorney general pick in November. The prosecutor’s charm offensive has wound its way through all corridors of the Senate since she began the meetings early last month. Her courtesy visits have included conservative Senate Republicans such as Cruz and David Vitter of Louisiana — who proclaimed he would vote against Lynch even before he sat down with her — as well as liberals like Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) and her home-state supporters, Democratic Sens. Chuck Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand. She was still doing those visits as late as Thursday, when she was on the Hill for meetings with Republican Sen. Thom Tillis of North Carolina and Majority Whip John Cornyn of Texas — both members of the Judiciary Committee. Tillis said he was headed into the private discussion with an “open mind.” In advance of the hearings this week, Hatch, Graham and Flake were largely seen as potential votes in favor of Lynch’s confirmation, while Sessions, Cruz, Vitter, Cornyn and Sen. Mike Lee (R-Utah) were being viewed as “no” votes, according to multiple Senate aides and a review of the senators’ public statements. Less clear were how Grassley, Tillis and Sen. David Perdue (R-Ga.) would ultimately vote, according to the aides. But Tillis could be inclined to vote in favor of Lynch, who hails from North Carolina. “I think she’s a good choice,” Graham said. “She seems to me to be a very qualified person. But you know, she’s got to perform well.” Added Vermont Sen. Patrick Leahy, who chaired the committee when Democrats were in power: “She’ll be confirmed overwhelmingly.” Much of the drama on her nomination has played out separately from Lynch herself, as the administration and Grassley’s staff sparred over what White House officials saw as the Senate’s unnecessary delay in considering her. Earlier this month, White House press secretary Josh Earnest said Lynch’s nomination merited prompt consideration, arguing that she “deserves a lot better treatment than she’s currently receiving.” He called on the Senate to confirm Lynch before Congress’ first recess of the year, which is the week of Feb. 16. That looks unlikely to happen. Grassley and his spokeswoman, Beth Levine, predicted that Lynch may not even see a committee vote before the mid-February break, due to multiple procedural hurdles. For instance, senators would need time to submit questions for the record, which means the earliest a vote on her nomination could appear on the committee’s agenda would presumably be Feb. 12. Then her nomination would almost certainly be delayed an additional week, since committee rules allow any one senator to ask for the vote to be held over. With the Senate’s current 51-vote threshold for most nominations, including hers, and expected unanimous support from Democrats, Lynch would need only a handful of Republicans to push her over the confirmation finish line once she gets to the floor. Other Senate Republicans not on Judiciary, such as McCain and Deb Fischer of Nebraska, have previously indicated they are inclined to support her, barring an unforeseen twist. “I’m one who believes the president should have his people unless they are unqualified and there’s some extenuating circumstance,” Flake said. “I haven’t seen that yet.” Vitter appears to be the only declared vote against Lynch so far, but other committee Republicans were strictly noncommittal when asked about her. Lee said only: “We’re going to have a look at her at the hearing.” Some Senate Republicans, who, like their House colleagues, have had an antagonistic relationship with the current attorney general, are particularly careful in considering how they will approach Lynch’s confirmation. “I supported Attorney General Holder,” Sessions said. “And I’m still getting complaints about it.”