Miley Cyrus and Patrick Schwarzenegger: Date Night with Maria Shriver!
It wasn't a typical date night out for Miley Cyrus and Patrick Schwarzenegger on Wednesday. The couple, who has been dating since November, dined at The Palm restaurant in Los Angeles – and Patrick’s mom, Maria Shriver, and younger brother Chris joined them! The “Wrecking Ball” singer covered up in a chic black dress for the meeting with mom and after dinner, she and Patrick were seen hopping into Patrick’s car.  To see them in action, watch the video above! VIDEO: Miley Cyrus Teases A Possible New Collab With Madonna! Earlier in the day, Miley uploaded a photo-shopped image to Instagram, seemingly showing what the pair’s child could look like one day.  Mi-Cy clearly wasn’t enthusiastic, jokingly captioning the pic, “Ew” But we wouldn’t read too much into the 22-year-old’s Instagram posts.  In January, she opened up to ET about the thought process behind the pics she shares, revealing she doesn't give it a whole lot of thought at all. “People go, 'Woah. Do you ever wake up and think like, wow, maybe I shouldn't have Instagrammed that.'  You can tell when I'm like really bored, or I just woke up so I lay in bed for an hour and I'll do like eight or nine posts in a row, then you can tell when I'm actually busy and having a life, and don't post for three days-- people don't know what's happening,” she explained. VIDEO: Cody Simpson Defends Miley Cyrus, Justin Bieber and Kendall Jenner! The singer added, “…but I think Instagram is fun…. I think it's also a place where you can kind of celebrate being who you are. You can make yourself, you can be whoever you want to be on Instagram which is fun, that's also dangerous, but it's also really fun for people like me.”  Are you happy to see Miley and Patrick are still going strong? Let @Katie_Krause know on Twitter and include our hashtag #ETnow in your tweet!  And, to see Miley open up about her playful friendship with Justin Bieber, watch our interview with her below.