Republicans: Obama budget 'laughable'
For congressional Republicans, President Barack Obama’s fiscal 2016 budget is “laughable.” It “shamelessly panders to the Democratic base.” And it’s nothing more than a “lousy Groundhog Day repeat.” GOP lawmakers pulled out all the rhetorical jabs as they responded Monday to Obama’s $4 trillion fiscal blueprint, which calls for boosting spending on government programs, doling out tax breaks for the middle class and ending the much-hated across-the-board budget cuts known as sequestration. Story Continued Below And the fact that Obama’s budget rolled out on Groundhog Day made the references to the 1993 Bill Murray film irresistible for congressional Republicans. “It may be Groundhog Day, but the American people can’t afford a repeat of the same old top-down policies of the past,” House Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio) said. “Like the president’s previous budgets, this plan never balances — ever.” Rep. Scott Garrett (R-N.J.) piled on: “It’s fitting that President Obama released his budget on Groundhog Day because it’s a painful repeat of the same failed policies that he has presented to Congress for the past six years.” And Rep. Diane Black (R-Tenn.) called the budget “laughable.” In a joint statement, Rep. Tom Price (R-Ga.) and Sen. Mike Enzi (R-Wyo.), the chairs of the budget committee in their respective chambers, said they will produce a budget that balances within a decade. “A proposal that never balances is not a serious plan for America’s fiscal future, especially when we have to borrow money just to afford the programs we already have,” the lawmakers said. And influential GOP senators the president will have to work with almost universally panned the budget document’s $4 trillion footprint, the tax policies that fund it and the lack of eventual balance between revenues and spending. “After six straight years of trying to have it all and losing control of both the House and Senate in the process, it’s time for the President to try something new: listening to the American people,” said Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn of Texas. Republicans want to eliminate loopholes and broadly lower rates, while Obama’s budget would add new taxes for high-income Americans and tax credits for people with low incomes. But the White House and Capitol Hill are clearly talking past each other on a key issue targeted for bipartisan collaboration. Senate Finance Committee Chairman Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) called Obama’s budget a “retread” of past proposals that died instantly on the Hill and concluded it was “partisan, not practical” — not a great reading for the prospects of a tax deal. And on infrastructure improvement, another bipartisan possibility over the next two years, Republicans shrugged at his idea of imposing a 14 percent tax on overseas corporate profits to shore up the country’s struggling transportation networks. The general idea has merit, but Obama’s tax rate is too high for Republicans. “My colleagues and I believe we can create a new innovative financing tool and have the resources to fund a six-year year highway bill at lower repatriation rates,” said Sen. Roy Blunt of Missouri. Instead, Obama and the GOP found common ground by not advocating for an increase in the gasoline tax, which has been stagnant since 1993. The instant flogging of Obama’s budget by Republicans was a sign Republicans aren’t ready to turn to helping middle-income families, Sen. Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) concluded. “If the GOP takes this budget and sticks it in a drawer, they’ll be making it crystal clear that they’re more interested in helping special interests than middle class families,” he said. Ending up in a drawer might be understating things. Judging by the GOP reaction, the office shredder seems a safer bet. Quipped Sen. Dan Coats (R-Ind.): “President Obama likes to talk about his veto pen and with the release of this budget, we can only conclude that he writes with red ink.”