Robin Wright on Ben Foster: I've Never Had a Better Sex Life
House of Cards star Robin Wright, 48, is happier than ever. And a lot of it is thanks to her boyfriend, 34-year-old Lone Survivor actor Ben Foster. Glowing on the April cover of Vanity Fair in a plunging white halter dress, Wright gets super-candid about their relationship, including their sex life. The two got engaged last January but reportedly called it off in November. However, they were back together by the Golden Globes this year, posing together on the red carpet.  "I've never been happier in my life than I am today, " Wright tells Vanity Fair.  "Perhaps it's not ladylike [to say], but I've never laughed more, read more, or come more than with Ben. He inspires me to be the best of myself. " PHOTOS: Hollywood's Most On-Again/Off-Again Couples    "There's so much to learn, " she adds.  "It's endless. How great! It took me a long time to grow up. Love is possible as life is possible. " The Forrest Gump actress remains tight-lipped about her 2010 divorce from Sean Penn, whom she was married to for 14 years. They have two children together, actress/model Dylan Penn, 23, and son Hopper Jack, 21.  "I'm not in the business of talking about what 'isn't,' " she says about their split.  "My eyes are set forward and I've never been happier. I have too much respect for Sean and our two extraordinary children to sell our past joys and woes for public consumption and fodder. " That being said, she says she's definitely learned from the demise of their marriage -- particularly, that she's now looking for  "kindness " in her relationships.  "I believe we were together not only to have our beautiful children but to learn how to love … for the next time around, the right way, " she says.  "And then, what I'm looking for in people now, is kindness. " For his part, Penn hasn't been shy about his thoughts on Wright, telling Esquire UK in January that after two marriages (Penn was also married to Madonna before splitting in 1989), his reported engagement to Charlize Theron would be the only one that mattered.  "You say I've been married twice before but I've been married under circumstances where I was less informed than I am today, so I wouldn’t even consider it a third marriage, I'd consider it a first marriage on its own terms if I got married again, " he surprisingly said. He also admitted that he and Wright were not on the best of terms.  "I’m very friendly with my first ex-wife, " he said, referring to Madonna.  "I would say that I’m on extremely good terms with the children I share with my second ex-wife. " VIDEO: Are 'House of Cards' Francis & Claire Underwood Based on Bill & Hillary Clinton?   Watch the video below for more on one of Penn's most candid interviews ever.