Ash Carter vows to be ’a stickler for the chain of command’
Ash Carter vows to be a “stickler for the chain of command” if confirmed by the Senate as the next secretary of defense, according to the opening statement prepared for his confirmation hearing Wednesday. “I have promised President Obama that, if I am confirmed, I will furnish him my most candid strategic advice,” Carter says in his opening prepared remarks for the Senate Armed Services Committee, obtained by POLITICO. “The law also prescribes the chain of command and, if I am confirmed as secretary of defense, I will be a stickler for the chain of command.” Story Continued Below Carter’s comments allude to Republican criticisms that the White House micromanages Pentagon affairs, making it difficult for Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel — or Carter, or anyone else — to effectively carry out the job. The former deputy defense secretary also makes the case for his support of acquisition reform, saying he’s “echoing” the call for major reforms by Committee Chairman John McCain (R-Ariz.). And Carter urges Congress to work with the Pentagon to end sequestration, saying he backs the Obama administration’s fiscal 2016 defense budget that busts through the sequestration spending caps by $35 billion. “I very much hope that we can find a way together out of the wilderness of sequester,” Carter says in his prepared remarks. “I am not familiar with the details of the FY 2016 budget submitted a few days ago, and if confirmed I will come back here for a full posture hearing to discuss them. But I strongly support the president’s request for relief from the sequester caps in fiscal 2016 and through the future year defense plan.” Carter, who will be introduced to the committee by former Sen. Joe Lieberman (I-Conn.), is likely to face tough questions at Wednesday’s hearing on everything from the budget to Obama’s foreign policy strategy, in which Republicans are likely press Carter on his ability to be an independent force at the Pentagon. In a 91-page pre-hearing questionnaire, Carter did not provide much detail on how he’d handle the major national security crises facing the U.S., though he did say he’d recommend changes to the U.S. withdrawal policy in Afghanistan should circumstances change there. Still, Carter’s confirmation is hardly in doubt, no matter how pointed the questions may be. He has the support of most senators on both sides of the aisle, including McCain, who is eager to move Carter’s confirmation through the committee as quickly as possible, potentially shortening the period that senators can submit follow-up questions after the hearing in order to get a full Senate vote more quickly. Wednesday’s hearing, though, is expected to stretch from morning to night. “It will go for a long time,” McCain told POLITICO.