And now here ' s " Pop news , " everybody . Country music ' s biggest night was out of this world . Literally . The 2015 cma awards opening a galaxy far , far away with a hilarious " Star wars " spoof . Hosts Carrie Underwood and brad paisley channeling princess Leia and Han solo and later they were joined on stage by a surprised guest disguised as a stormtrooper . " Star wars " is my famous science fiction movie franchise of all time . Next to " Star trek . " That was great . I love seeing William shatner there and then as any great awards show host knows , there has to be a showstopping moment so brad , he tries to outdo Miley Cyrus ' wild wardrobe by tripping down to his boxers . I expected them to be tighter than that . He was feeling right at home on the cma stage and I couldn ' t believe he and Carrie hosted this for eight straight year . They do so well . They are awesome together . Now we know he ' s not a briefs guy . I expect him to be a little brief guy . I am glad he wasn ' t a commando guy . That would be uncomfortable for everybody . There was just as much excitement on the red carpet for everybody . Fans were literally blown away when host Carrie Underwood stepped out looking ravishing in an elegant peach colored gown . Look at that and although Miranda lambert ' s dress was beautiful , everyone was talking about the platinum singer ' s new pink hairdo . I like it . Yeah . Looking good . And meanwhile , Kelly pickler was having one of the best days of her life . If you haven ' t noticed all those Yeah , we got it . I want to sing them but don ' t want to offend the artist . She made a grand entrance in this regal Ruben singer gown and not to be outdone , Garth brooks , he paired his finest cowboy hat with a snazzy looking tux looking classic there and the man of the night , Luke Bryan and his wife Caroline , yes , Luke , they brought their " A " game with effortless Nashville style . Looking good . I got fashion I do what I can do . You ' re looking good yourself , buddy . In honor of the cmas , our good friend , jimmy Kimmel put together a little special country music addition of mean tweets . Let ' s take a look . You ever gotten so drunk you said a Luke Bryan song actually wasn ' t that bad ? Me neither . Sam hunt is the male version of Taylor swift except his songs suck . They ' re such good sports about it . I love that . The cmas , what an awesome show and they were great with the mean tweets and , hey , that ' s all I got . That ' s " Pop news . " Thank you . All right . Thank you , Michael .
