Not the race for the white house heating up in a big way on two fronts over the holiday weekend . George sat down with Donald Trump and those gloves oh they are coming off against Ted Cruz . He did not hold back and on the democratic side either last night . The final one before the votes in Iowa two weeks from today . Hillary Clinton and Bernie sanders mixing it up . We were there in Charleston . Hillary may be the national frontrunner but with sanders so strong in New Hampshire and Iowa she chose to attack . Reporter : George , boy did she chose to attack and attack again but so did Bernie sanders . If you had any question about how close this race is as we head into Iowa all you had to do was watch last night . Senator sanders They were face to face and they went head to head . The comments that senator sanders has made that don ' t just affect me . I can take that . You have received over 600 , 000 in speaking fees from Goldman Sachs in one year . Overnight Hillary Clinton and Bernie sanders taking their campaign trail war to the south Carolina debate stage . Clinton accusing sanders flip flopping on gun control . He voted to let guns on to amtrak and guns go into national parks and voted against doing research to figure out how we can save lives . Well , I think secretary Clinton knows that what she says is very disingenuous . I have a deminus voting record from the NRA . Sanders accusing Clinton of lying about his health care plan . That is nonsense . The Vermont senator on the defensive . His universal health care plan that would raise taxes on the middle class unveiled two hours before the debate . I have say I ' m not sure whether we ' re talking about the plan you just introduced tonight or the plan you introduced nine times in the congress . The one thing they didn ' t fight about , the very topic Hillary Clinton was hoping to avoid , her husband . Yes , his behavior was deplorable . Have I ever once said a word about that issue ? No . Secretary Clinton and governor O ' Malley I ' m going to debate them on those issues . Yes , sanders says he didn ' t want to go there but he did go there . Hillary Clinton did talk about her husband . She was asked what kind of role bill Clinton would play . She said we ' ll start as a kitchen table role and see where we go . George , the one name Hillary didn ' t mention , Donald Trump not even once . They changed from the last debate . And the republicans going at it
