As you mentioned there ' s big news for democrats this morning . That stunning new poll showing Bernie sanders with a nearly 30 point lead over Hillary Clinton in New Hampshire . ABC ' s Cecilia Vega is here with that story . Good morning , Cecilia . Reporter : Good morning to you . There is no way to describe these new New Hampshire Numbers other than stunning . Bernie sanders , that democratic socialist senator from Vermont now has nearly double the support over the candidate who many assumed would glide right into this nomination . Should Hillary Clinton be nervous ? Yeah , I would be nervous . Reporter : This morning Bernie sanders enjoying a massive lead in New Hampshire and already looking past the granite state , Iowa . Just kidding . Reporter : And beyond . I think we have the momentum and I think we stand a very good chance to win in both states . Reporter : That new poll showing the Vermont senator with his biggest New Hampshire lead yet , 27 points over Clinton . And another shocker , 91 of new Hampshire democrats view sanders favorably . For Clinton , 65 . The Numbers especially damaging to Clinton in a state where she has been on the offensive , dispatching her most powerful surrogates from bill and Chelsea to a long list of celebrities like " Girls " star Lena Dunham and soccer star Abby Wambach . Ben from Ben jerry ' s . Now Hillary Clinton feeling the burn . I ' m going to keep working as hard as I can to reach as many people of all ages . Reporter : The race in new Hampshire and Iowa so dire , she issued a plea to donors with this concession , there ' s a real possibility we could lose those contests . A real reality check this morning and there were polls this time back in 2008 that showed Barack Obama with a big lead in New Hampshire over Hillary Clinton . That was back then . We do , of course , know she ended up winning that state , guys , her campaign calling polls this morning , quote , meaningless . Wait , just Ben , not jerry . Okay , all right , just checking . Just the chunky , not the monkey , right . Okay , thank you , Cecilia .
