For many of us on Thanksgiving , thank you , Sara , once the food coma wears off it ' s time to go shopping . Here ' s a live look at some people getting a jump start on their holiday hunting and gathering . It used to be they waited till black Friday for this but now many major stores are open an Thanksgiving itself and ABC ' s Rebecca Jarvis is in Chicago with more on that . Hey , Rebecca , good morning . Reporter : Hey , Dan , good morning to you . Happy Thanksgiving and in . Biz they think of this as the super bowl of shopping . It is officially game day , 136 million Americans expected to shop between now and this weekend and here at Walmart they are ready for the rush . This morning , while many are gearing up for Turkey and pumpkin pie , others are getting ready for a different kind of feeding frenzy . Thanksgiving shoppers already lining up for a mad dash to score those holiday deals . But after years of backlash for opening on Turkey day , retailers appear to be finally holding the line on those earlier and earlier Thanksgiving openings . A lot of retailers are scaling back their hours or even closing their stores entirely because they realize that it doesn ' t actually help their bottom line . Reporter : Now Macy ' s , target , toys " R " us and Best Buy will kick things off tonight at exactly the same time as last year , staples opened the last two years on Thanksgiving will shut their doors completely for the holiday this year . H M is following suit and outdoor equipment retailer rei taking it a step further , deciding to stay closed on both Thanksgiving and black Friday . Retailers typically generate about 50 billion in sales over the four day weekend . But for the last two year , those sales have been falling . Online shopping has totally changed the game . Consumers are having a little more cash in their pockets this year for the holiday season . So retailers don ' t feel compelled to stay open on Thanksgiving . Reporter : Walmart is also mixing things up this year . For the first time ever most of their doorbusters for the black Friday weekend are already listed on the website literally right now . The doors open at Walmart throughout the day today but the official event kicks off here at 6 : 00 P . M . , Lara . In the super bowl of shopping , Rebecca , we thank you and now we do have more on holiday shopping with Amazon spokesperson Sarah Gelman who joins us from Los Angeles . Good morning . Good morning . Do you guys feel the need , are you working harder this year than ever to attract customers ? I mean , we work hard every year to taattract customers . We ' re ready for it . You are ready for it . I know you guys have a lot of great deals out there . We ' re going to talk about those in a second but what are you doing different now ? I hear something about an app that really might take you to the next level . Yeah , well , first of all we have new deals every five minutes this year . Not just on black Friday and cyber Monday we actually have them for 16 days . It really is a season , yes , we have them today on Thanksgiving , no , you don ' t have to get off your couch to shop . But we do have this new app I love called it ' s with the mobile shopping app called watch a deal . You can go to our deal page either on your laptop or your mobile shopping app and see a deal that ' s coming up maybe in a couple of hours . You don ' t want to sit there and stare at your computer screen or at your phone and spend time with your family . Click watch this deal and then Amazon sends you a push notification to your phone when the deal is live so you can continue on with your life , not have to stay and stare at your phone . Shop till you drop . Some of these deals you guys sent us are unbelievable . 50 inch TV for 150 , really , Sarah ? Yes , and I can ' t tell you what the brand is but what I can tell you , it is a mobile only deal so we have about 150 deals this year that are only on our mobile shopping app so if you don ' t have our mobile shopping app download it now because that is a great deal . Soy the app sounds like a must have . What other deals can you share with us like the 1 150 50 inch TV . Kids want toys . We have up to 50 off top selling toy brands , we have nerf , my little pony and of course , " Star wars , " " Star wars " is so big this year , another thing that ' s huge , dinosaurs so between " The good dinosaur " and " Jurassic world " we have great deals on that . For teen organization dulls it your life you cannot go wrong with electronics . Obviously we talked about TVs , we have a great deal on noise canceling headphones . 100 off , what I want this holiday season . We also have the kindle , so great for riding under 100 during this shopping season . You just recited my entire list , Sarah , thank you so much . I guess what we thank you so
