It is time for " Pop news . " Country style . And we are counting down to country music ' s biggest night , the cma award , of course , handed out tonight right here in Nashville . But we don ' t want you guys to have to wait until then so the kind folks here have been kind enough to give us a major " Gma " exclusive . They ' re allowing us to announce a couple of the awards and the winners right now . Okay . Let me just first say the first category is music video of the year . The cma awards ballots were tabulated by the professional service firm of deloitte and touche llp , Anissa , may I have the first envelope ? Thank you . The nominees for the video of the year are on your screen . I feel like I should have on a black tie dress to announce and the cma award goes to girl in a country song Maddie tae . Thumbs up , everybody . So great that we ' re able to announce these exclusively . May I have the envelope for the second exclusive award ? Being announced right here on " Gma . " These are the nominees for musical event of the year . There they are on your screen , everybody . Ready to hear the winner ? And the cma award goes to raise ' em up , Keith urban featuring Eric church . So good . Don ' t forget , of course , the 49th annual cma awards tonight at 8 : 00 , 7 : 00 central , where ? Right here on ABC . All right , also in " Pop news , " thank you so much , deloitte and touche for letting us do that , by the way . Also in " Pop news , " you know , just because I ' m away , George and gang , doesn ' t mean that we can ' t do a " Pop news " investigation . I was very busy down here in Nashville yesterday because we have discovered that hitting high notes is one of the best ways to make new friends . Literally taking singing lessons is a great way to bond . An oxford university study and , of course , I also studied it found that people who took weekly singing lessons together became better friends than people who took acting classes or art classes . Now , I decided to put this you know , I had to check the theory , ladies , come on in . I tested this theory at a lovely establishment called the stage right here in Nashville last night and I can confirm that I have made some new friends . Birthday girl , where are you ? ? I fell into a burning ring of fire I went down down down and the flames went higher ? ? they burns burns , burns the ring of fire ? ? the ring of fire ? I want you guys to all meet my new friends , Becky , would you confirm that this study is legitimate that we are now friends ? Yes , we love you . There you go . Another theory proved right here on " Good morning America . " George , robin . Can you give us a few more bars ? That was really good . A cappella too . I can ' t believe it .
