There is real outrage this morning at the oscars over the lack of di trersty among the nominees with some of Hollywood ' s biggest names saying they ' ll skip it entirely . It looks now , though , like changes , real changes are afoot . We do have a very big move to tell you about . Just announced by the motion picture academy aimed at increasing diversity and Chris Connelly joins us from L . A . With more . Hi , Chris . Reporter : Good morning , Paula . With controversy growing and more big names talking about passing the oscars by , the academy taking bold action to address its issues head on as it looks to create a voting membership that ' s younger , more diverse and more engaged in present day moviemaking . Still , reeling from the widespread outcry and the prospect of some high profile absences from the oscars after for the second straight year none of its 20 acting nominations went to a person of color overlooking such performances as Idris Elba in " Beasts of no nation " and not giving a best picture nod to " Straight outta Compton . " I got something to say . Reporter : The academy of motion picture arts and sciences on Friday announcing what it called a necessary step to aid diversity bringing sweeping changes to its membership ' s voting he wieligibility requirements . Going forward members who had been given lifetime voting privileges now getting them for a ten year stretch . Renewable for another ten years only if that person has remained active in motion pictures . The initiative coupled with efforts to enhance the diversity of the academy board and outreach to new members that ' s aimed at doubling the number of Oscar voters who are women and minorities by 2020 . On social media " Selma " director ava duvernay one good step in a long journey . The announcement coming in the weighing of some saying they ' d skip the ceremony in response to the nominations . Director spike lee awarded an honorary Oscar this year . As well as Jada Pinkett smith and her husband , will smith , who spoke earlier to robin . We ' re uncomfortable to stand there and say that this is okay . Reporter : All of these matters that one would expect Chris rock to share a few thoughts about , when he hosts the oscars on February 28th . It hasn ' t escaped my attention that I appear to be the only indoor correspondent this morning , so just so everybody knows here in Los Angeles , 56 degrees and we have a wind of about 3 miles an hour . Boo . And I ' m wearing cargo short , guys . You have shorts on right now ? Yeah , well Can we get a shot of that . We had some leaves blowing . That ' s all I saw on the way in . You ' re never coming back on this show . Just so you know . That ' s it . That ' s it . We ' ll go outside any time you want . I take that back because we love you and we ' ll be talking to you a bunch as the Oscar season ramps up . Thank you very much for that . Thanks , Chris .
