We begin with the mysterious plane crash . The wreckage in Egypt ' s sinai desert . They ' ll ruling out plane failure . Pilot error . They ' re not ruling out terrorism . Reporter : The executives of the airline , metro jet gave a press conference a short time ago saying this plane , an air bus 31 was in mechanically good shape . Saying the causes could only be due to external forces . Early this morning , plane landing in Russia ' s St . Petersburg . Carrying many of the bodies of the 224 who died in the crash . The airliner , strewn across eight square miles of barren desert . The airline insisting there was nong wrong with the plane . Russia ' s top aviation official saying it ' s too early to know . If that tail section came off first . Was it a bomb or was it structural failure ? Reporter : The flight took off from sharm el sheikh on Saturday . Smiling families posting photos . Over the next 20 minutes , the plane rose to 31 , 000 feet . Then , data shows it climbed and descended quickly several times . Contact was lost . No distress call . An isis linked group claimed responsibility . Intelligence officials say they don ' t have the missiles to shoot down a plane that high . And the ex wife of the co pilot told Russian TV hat he regularly complained about the status of the aircraft . Back in St . Petersburg this morning , anguished families , like these parents of a 29 year old who died , now going to the morgue to try to identify loved ones . Russia says the recovery efforts at the crash site will end today . The black boxes have been recovered . They ' re in good shape . We ' re told they ' ve been sent to Cairo for analysis . The best hope for shedding light on to how this tragedy unfolded . Thank you , Alex . We bring in Steve ganyard . You heard in Alex ' s report , external forces . What do you think snrnlgts at this point , we can ' t rule anything out . For Ar airplane to come apart many midair for no good reason is why this is such a mystery . There are a couple of things we can look at . Perhaps a bomb . Or perhaps it was some unknown structural failure where the airplane came apart . Right now , we don ' t have evidence that points us one way or the other . You heard from alexeii saying the black boxes . It ' s more the pattern of the wreckage they ' re looking at ? We talked about this in the past . We ' re saying let ' s find the black box . This airplane came apart instantaneously . There may not be data on the black boxes to help us . They ' ll shift to the debris on the desert floor . The real answers will be there on what the wreckage shows us . Hopefully so , toosteve . Thank you .
