breaking story this morning . Good morning . We ' re dedicating much of the show this morning to that big and truly baffling story out of San Bernardino . There it is . The first image of the mom who dropped off her 6 month old baby and went on a shooting spree with her husband . That is her passport photo . This morning , ABC news has obtained a picture of tashfeen malik as a college student . This morning , as police take the couple ' s car away for investigations , there are indications that the wife may have been the master mind behind this attack . With Isis now issuing its first statement on the attack , " Gma " has full team coverage . We start with chiefen vest gative correspondent Brian Ross . Reporter : Federal law enforcement officials believe it was the 29 year old mother , tashfeen malik , who initiated the attack . Radicalizing her husband and leading them down the road to the worst terror attack in this country since 9 11 . Within moments of murdering 14 people at her husband ' s holiday office party , tashfeen malik went on Facebook to declare allegiance to Isis . A key clue that led the FBI to finally end any reference to this attack as work place violence . We ' re now investigating these horrific acts as an act of terrorism . Reporter : Malik was born in Pakistan . Moved to Saudi Arabia at the age of 4 . Returned to Pakistan to attend college . Her marriage last year came after she met Syed farook on a matrimonial website . And now , U . S . Official are questioning where she was the one who radicalized her husband . It ' s not surprising that the woman would be the more radical of the two in this situation . Terrorism is not gender specific . Violence is not gender specific . At this point in the evolution of terrorism , it wouldn ' t be surprising to see a woman take an operational role . Reporter : Now , the search is on for others who may have been involved in the biggest terror attack in the U . S . Since 9 11 . We know they were in electronic conversations with people in the U . S . I ' m not aware of the overseas connections . We ' re working with foreign partners on that . Reporter : And authorities are questioning the person who first bought the two high powered weapons in the attack and sold them or turned them over to farook . The person is not under arrest at this point . As important if the not more important are there others ? Are they based in the U . S . ? Outside the U . S . ? We don ' t know the answers . Reporter : Lots of questions . Assault style weapons are not legal to be sold in California , for the most part . The person being questioned is not under arrest . At least not yet . Lots of questions . One of them is that Isis released a statement overnight . They ' re not claiming responsibility . Tell us what they ' re saying . Reporter : They ' re praising the attack in California . And what they call the Isis supporters . It ' s a further indication this was likely inspired by Isis but not directed by high command like the Paris attacks were . All right , Brian Ross , thank you very much .
