Always the burger . Thank you guys , very much . Governor Chris Christie is over at the machine shack . Governor Christie thank you for joining us again this morning . You know , the latest poll in Iowa has you at 3 . How are you going to improve that over the course of the day if . Listen , I think we improved it over the course of time . The fact is , what I have wanted all along is come out of Iowa as the number one governor . I think we ' ll overperform what the poll ' s done . When you look at how much Jeb bush has spent in this state and time and money we ' re polling ahead of him here on the last day is a good sign of our campaign . Only three tickets out of Iowa , do you think that ' s wrong this year ? Of course , it ' s wrong . Never been this many candidates that have gotten to the starting line . I don ' t think that ' s it . I think Iowa and New Hampshire will seen as an exacta . They ' ll be read together . Probably four , five when we leave New Hampshire next Tuesday . You said last night Donald Trump is going to bring himself down . I asked Mr Trump about that this morning . It seemed to hurt his feelings . He said you used to be friends . We are friends . But are we are running against each other . If I ' m asked a question about him I ' m going to given a honest question . I know Donald Trump for a long time . His feelings don ' t get hurt that easily . How do you explain though what has been happening all year long at least in the polls , no one has voted yet , you talked about the governors , you had a lot of experienced governors here in this year ' s race , but it ' s the outsiders that seem to be outpacing you ? First off , George , I ' m offended calling Ted Cruz an outsider , he went to princeton , Harvard , he worked for the federal government and then had a federal job in Texas . Hardly an outsider . Let ' s stop calling Ted Cruz an outsiders . But no one has voted yet . Let ' s see what happens when people vote . Anybody who ' s been in this business for any period of time will be fascinated to see what happens . Let ' s wait and not draw conclusions based off polling . I remember back in 2004 , everybody was getting ready to crown Howard dean the next president of the United States and I don ' t think that happened , either . Sounds like you ' re expecting a surprise tonight ? Not that I ' m expecting a surprise I just don ' t think , you know , looking at these polls all year and the fact how obsessed everybody gets about the polls , it matters when people start to vote . Within 12 hours of people voting , yeah , I ' ll wait for the vote before I start react zblg governor , good luck today , good luck tonight . We ' ll seeout out on the trail . George , look forward to seeing you in New Hampshire . Thanks for being in Iowa today . Thanks for having me on . Let ' s go back to rob in new York .
