We turn now to the race for 2016 , and to a developing headline late today . The new poll Numbers coming in , showing Ben Carson in the lead , then Donald Trump , then Marco Rubio , Jeb bush facing a big challenge . And now late word from Donald Trump , saying he ' ll negotiate about the debates on his own . ABC ' s Tom llamas on the campaign trail . Reporter : Tonight , as miss of the republican presidential candidates unite , hoping to take control of future debates , Donald Trump says he ' ll nel gauche yat for himself . The networks are making a fortune with the debates . We should be like a basketball player . We should go on strike and say , we want money for wounded warriors , or we want money for a great charity . Reporter : Trump isn ' t signing a letter many other campaigns plan to send to television networks . An early draft including demands for at least 30 seconds of opening and closing statements . No " Gotcha " lightning rounds . And no show of hands questions . Raise your hand now if you won ' t make that pledge tonight . Mr Trump . Reporter : And remember how some of the candidates were sweating under those bright lights ? They now want keep the debate hall below 67 degrees . Someone who has gotten a big boost from the debates , senator Marco Rubio . Today , trump slamming him as a lightweight . I think he ' s an overrated person . I don ' t think he ' s going to make it . Reporter : Jeb bush , Rubio ' s close friend , taking a swing today . The challenging we fashice as a nation are too great . Reporter : Bush today trying to relaunch his struggling campaign with a new slogan . I can fix it . Reporter : Bush admits he ' s getting lots of advice . Take off the suit coat . Ditch the glasses . Get rid of the purple striped tie . I like the tie . Reporter : But late tonight , his campaign communications director tweeting out , Jeb ' s going to have a few weeks of bad polls . Comebacks take time , we recognize and are prepared for that . Reporter : And David , Jeb bush says the candidates should go forward with the next debate . That ' s been suspended because of the much criticized CNBC debate , but bush says it should happen . David ? Tom llamas , thank you . And we should mention to everyone at home that Donald Trump will be live in our times square studios first thing in the morning on " Good morning America . "
