Today I ' m here to announce that the Department of Justice has opened an investigation . Into whether the Chicago Police Department . Has engaged in a pattern or practice of violations of the constitution . Or federal law . Specifically . We will examine a number of issues related to the Chicago police department ' s use of force . Including its use of deadly force racial ethnic and other disparities in its use of force . And it ' s accountability mechanisms . Such as disciplinary actions and its handling allegations of misconduct . This investigation has been requested by a number of state . And local officials and community leaders but has been open only after a preliminary review and careful consideration of how the Justice Department . Can best use our tools and our resources to meet Chicago ' s needs . In the coming months this investigation will be conducted by experienced career attorneys . From the civil rights division with the assistance of the United States attorney ' s office for the northern district of Illinois . They will conduct a thorough . Impartial and independent review . Of the allegations and the team will meet with a broad cross section of community members city officials . And law enforcement command staff and officers . To both explain our process and to hear from anyone who wishes to share information relevant to this investigation . We will examine what they ' re experts policies practices and that . At the end of our investigation we will issue a report of our findings . And if we discover and constitutional patterns or practices the Department of Justice will announce them publicly . We will seek a court enforceable agreement with the Chicago Police Department and worked with the city to implement appropriate reforms . Our goal in this investigation as in all of our pattern or practice investigations . Is not to focus on individuals but to improve systems . To ensure that officers are being provided with the tools that they need including training . Policy guidance and equipment to be more effective to partner with civilians and to strengthen public safety . We understand that the same systems that fail community members . Also fail conscientious officers by creating mistrust . Between law enforcement and the citizens that we are sworn to serve and protect . This mistrust from members of the community makes it more difficult to gain help with investigations . To encourage the victims and witnesses of crime to speak . And fulfill the most basic responsibilities of public safety officials . And when suspicion and hostility is allowed to fester can erupt into unrest . Building trust between law enforcement officers in the communities that we serve is one of my highest priorities as attorney general . The Department of Justice intends to do everything that we can to Foster those bonds and to create safer and fairer communities across the country . And regardless of the ultimate findings of this investigation . We will seek to work with local officials with residents and law enforcement officers alike . To ensure that the people of Chicago had the world class police department that a user .
