Martha , thank you . Turning now to the race for 2016 . New fallout after the contentious debate . The fireworks paying off , Ben Carson saying he pulled in 2 million after taking on the media . Tonight , the republican party taking action , suspending an upcoming debate . Here ' s Jonathan Karl . Reporter : Tonight , the republican candidates revolt . Even in New Jersey what you ' re doing is called rude . So Reporter : Fuming over this week ' s debate on CNBC . Is this a comic book version of a presidential campaign ? No , and it ' s not a very nicely asked question the way you say that . The questions asked so far in this debate illustrate why the American people don ' t trust the media . We have 19 trillion in debt , people out of work , we have Isis and Al Qaeda attacking us , and we ' re talking about fantasy football ? Can we stop ? Reporter : Now the chairman of the republican party is suspending plans for a February debate on CNBC ' s sister network , NBC . Writing , " CNBC ' s moderators engaged in a series of gotcha questions , petty and mean spirited in tone , and designed to embarrass our candidates . " NBC called it a " Disappointing development , " pledging to work with republicans to address their concerns . This is not the first time republicans have complained . Who could forget Donald Trump ' s fury over the way he was treated in the first debate ? You ' ve called women you don ' t like fat pigs , dogs , slobs and disgusting animals . I ' ve been very nice to you , although I could probably maybe not be based on the way you ' ve treated me . But I wouldn ' t do that . Reporter : That debate , of course , on Fox News . And the next one will be on fox business . And tonight republicans say it will go on as scheduled . And Jon is with us here in New York tonight . Word of a big meeting among republicans this weekend . They all have demands , more control over the moderators . But this is a summit of enemies . They have different demands . Ben Carson wants more candidates , trump wants fewer . And good luck in the marathon this weekend with the ABC team .
