For so let ' s talk about one McDonnell and you saw a videotape not long after that incident last October . Based on what you ' ve seen in what you know about this case should officer van have been charged with first degree . Well I can ' t America to speak to that of course I ' m not privy to the investigation grass and this is something that that I think is really important to realists . People across the country clamored for civilian oversight of police department and other agencies to investigate issues here in Chicago we have both . And then on top of that we actually have the United States attorney . It ' s conducting this investigation that the FBI . So it ' s not an action I ' m mad about that ' s ongoing right now not asking you to comment on that but this is an officer that he ' s under your leadership this is something that is already transpired we now charged with first degree murder . Do you agree or disagree with them . I can ' t speak to a because they don ' t know the intimacies of the investigation . That ' s what I really need should understand . The only thing that I can do in this particular case on to the law . Is to strip him of his police powers now the grand jury is secret . Anything I ' m learning about it quite frankly I ' m learning from you guys and learning from the press because it has to be open source . Okay superintendent let ' s talk about your leadership and your future and your job you as you know there are growing calls for you to resign . The sun times is came out with their editorial this morning to show everybody you can see it that ' s the headline right there . Chicago police superintendent Garry McCarthy has lost the trust and support of much of Chicago without which he cannot do his job in fact they went on to say . That if you don ' t resign that the mayor should go ahead and fired U what is your reaction to that should you resign will you resign . Well no I ' m not going to resigned I ' m not gonna give up on this idiom like we give up on on on the good people of Chicago and I ' m certainly not can give up on the Chicago Police Department . It ' s been enormous change of Italy this morning if skiers and this is all being plus an and we gave you you ' ll the figures last night . In the list for years people are talking about cultural change in Chicago Police Department . We ' ve had a almost half the number of complaints from civilians this year compared to list here . Police related shootings over the list for years it down almost 70 . Based on policy changes supervision . And other things that we ' re doing training for instant dose of things that I am in control up . And and the listing just talking about cultural change . Think about the weight that the protests have been handled in Chicago vs other places . We ' ve got officers getting punched . We ' ve got to getting spit on we ' ve got objects being thrown at them and how many arrests may be twelve but the question is can you continue to effectively lead though that the department if you don ' t have the confidence . Of the community . I believe absolutely that is a very large sector of the community who supports me and hear it all day long every single day . Obviously every place I go people are saying things like stay strong stay tough we ' ve got your back . At the end of today . We can feel this way we ' ve got to sit down we ' ve got to get the facts out right because his last effects editing lost . There ' s a lot of things and be put being presented as facts and enough factual for instance what I can ' t in Q2 . And that ' s why the maze test for us that is putting together is brilliant because it ' s an issue that I identified three and a half years ago . That I have accountability quite obviously but I don ' t have authority . And without authority you can in fact get things done to wade in the do you . Just mentioned count a billion let ' s talk about that for a second and it goes back to the numbers and I wanna start with officer van dyke at least eighteen citizen complaints . Were filed against him over his fourteen years at the department eight of those alleged excessive force and that ' s according to a database he was never disciplined . That . New University of Chicago database also shows that at a more than 56000 complaints against officers over a twelve year period less than 3 . Of officers were at . This and we also do have new information released from CP deal uniting citizen complaints against police . Are dropping what is your reaction to all of that is there an accountability problem what do you want the public to connect . Well I want the public to know that I think it ' s a list seven complaints against van dyke would not investigated by Chicago Police Department . They were investigated by the outside agency that the community is clamoring for . And it ' s important so our authority in investigating those complaints is not very strong .
