Time couch the mother that apple lands a team is back in Texas this morning in court to face charges that she helped her son ' s skipped probation and hide out in Mexico . It was his Mac governor ' s been on this case from the start he joins us now with the latest good morning Matt . Good morning George that ' s right tidy cats will be arraigned this morning charged with . Helping her son flee to Mexico becoming America ' s Most Wanted mom now Texas authorities taking a special interest in her sitting bond at a million dollars the sheriff even escorting her to jail himself . First on these done that in fifteen years . This morning Tonya catches in this takes his jail . Flown from Los Angeles to Texas aboard this Boeing 787 . Dreamliner and is scored it like a celebrity suspect . When a special staircase off the plane . And into action hurts van waiting right on the tarmac . The suburban mom with the red ring lifts weren ' t a check it over her handcuffs Q whoosh . Very quiet and reserved converged let cool . Brought to be jailed . But the sheriff himself attitude which cooperative action fraudulent shooter Hirsch to she ' s expected to be arraigned this morning on the charge of hindering the apprehension of her son . Ethan couch known as the and a flu wins a teen who pleaded guilty 2013 . Two killing four people when a drunk driving crash the pair took off from Texas in early December in time his truck bound for Mexico . Staying at this resort and party in yet this strip two point . Where staffers tell ABC news Ethan racked up a 1000 dollar tab one night . Couldn ' t pay authorities finally catching up with them on this street when December 28 . But this morning you think is still in Mexico fighting deportation back to Texas he ' s wanted for violating his probation . Now done is it lawyer insists her client violated no laws and tells me there ' s no way China can make that million dollar bail she calls it excessive essential fight to get it lowered saying . Now the times divorced from . Isn ' t so affluent George drop in payment coming thanks very much .
