We have major developments tonight , after Americans were released in that prisoner swap from Iran . Tonight , one now speaking out . The former marine with a message for his fellow Marines , revealing what happened at the moment their plane cleared Iranian air space . And , late today , new images of another prisoner and his first hours of freedom . Here ' s ABC ' s chief investigative correspondent Brian Ross . Reporter : Finally , something to laugh about for " Washington post " reporter Jason rezaian . In the first video of him as a free man , released tonight , he is shown chuckling with his wife over a joke that poked fun at his Iranian captors for claiming he was a spy . It was also a great day for another of the freed Americans . 32 year old amir hekmati , eager to tell the world Iran did not break him . I feel alive for the first time . It ' s like being born again and I just really feel proud to be an American . Reporter : Hekmati said he and the three other released Americans so mistrusted the Iranians , that they did not relax until their Swiss air force plane cleared Iranian air space , after a delay of some 12 hours . Champagne bottles were popped . Reporter : Hekmati was held for more than four years at Iran ' s notorious even prison , where his family says he was tortured . My name is amir mirazy hekmati . Reporter : And forced to make this false confession video , after which he was sentenced to death for being a cia spy . A former marine , hekmati said today , it was his regard for his fellow Marines that kept him going . Especially after some of them organized an online hunger strike to support him . I didn ' t want to let my fellow Marines down , so , I tried my best to , you know , keep my head up and withstand all the pressures that were put upon me , some of which were very inhuman and unjust . Semper fi to all the Marines out there . Powerful to hear from them now . Brian Ross with us tonight . About the American left behind , the family of bob Levinson talking to you right here tonight . What are they saying now ? Reporter : Well , today , the mystery of the American left behind only deepened as the white house said the U . S . Has reason to believe that Levinson is no longer in Iran . The white house says its long had that belief , but the lechson family today said they were surprised to hear that statement . All right , Brian Ross , you ' ll stay on that for sure .
