Bad sign : The Giants weren ' t really expecting to run the ball much against this Jets front , and they really didn ' t . Certainly not consistently . They also continued their ridiculous , four back rotation that allows nobody to get warm or into any kind of a rhythm . The results were predictably erratic . And their short yardage rushing attack remains terrible . Just terrible . The Giants ' defensive tackling was absolutely atrocious , even worse than it has been for most of the season . Too many decent plays by the Jets could ' ve been stopped for short gains if not for multiple missed tackles . With all the focus on Beckham , you ' d think the Giants could find another receiver to develop as a decent second option , right ? Nope . As the fourth quarter began , Beckham had four catches and Reuben Randle , Dwayne Harris and Myles White had combined for three , including none for Randle . None of them had a second catch until Randle caught his second pass of the quarter ( and the game ) with about 9 : 20 left . The Giants continue to make some strange fourth quarter decisions that either hurt them or fall into the " could ' ve hurt them " category . This week ' s edition : going for it on 4th and goal from the Jets ' 2 with 8 : 50 remaining instead of taking a field goal that would ' ve put them up 13 . The result : Manning throws a terrible pass that is intercepted on the goal line . Of course these decisions wouldn ' t hurt them if the Giants could play a little fourth quarter defense . Once again the defense wore down . The Jets took that interception and marched it right back down the field for a field goal . And things only got worse for the Giants ' defense . I mean , seriously , letting Ryan Fitzpatrick run for 15 yards on a 4th and 6 with less than a minute left in the game ? That is completely inexcusable . So is the fact that they ' ve now blown five fourth quarter leads in the final two minutes of games this season . Josh Brown misses a kick ? Bad timing for his first miss of the season , on a 48 yarder in overtime that would ' ve kept the game going .
