We begin tonight with the Americans released in the prisoner swap with Iran . An amazing triumph of courage as one former marine speaks out telling the world that Iran did not break him . This on the 35th anniversary of another Iran hostage crisis , leaving us with a strange feeling of deja Vu . Here ' s ABC ' s David Wright . Reporter : Tonight in Germany " Washington post " reporter Jason rezaian laughed with his wife over a video . The first joke they ' ve been able to share in more than a year . Rezaian , one of five American citizens who were imprisoned in Iran , all five of them free at last as part of a broader deal negotiated by the Obama administration . At long last they can stand tall and breathe deep the fresh air of freedom . Reporter : Their release in exchange of Iranian prisoners held here , part of a broader U . S . Deal with Iran , thawing relations that had been frozen since 1979 . Today 32 year old amir hekmati was the first of the former prisoners to speak publicly . How does it feel to be back , amir ? It feels great . I feel lucky . Reporter : Eager to let friends and family know he ' s okay . I didn ' t want to let my fellow Marines down , so I tried my best to , you know , keep my head up and withstand all the pressures that were put upon me . Some of which were very inhumane and unjust . I ' m grateful . Semper fi . Reporter : He ' s a Marine Corps veteran , arrested while visiting family in Iran . My name is amir hekmati . Reporter : Forced to make this false confession , convicted of espionage and sentenced to death . As soon as we got out of Iranian airspace , champagne bottles were popped and the Swiss are amazing , hospitality . Reporter : The scene today a happy echo of 35 years ago this morning . The day Iran finally released the 52 U . S . Hostages Look at that inside the door of the dc 9 welcome back to freedom . Reporter : After 144 days of captivity . Reporting for " Nightline " that morning During these past 444 days . Reporter : That ' s " Nightline " anchor Ted coppell introducing the late great peter Jennings . It has been an unbelievably long day for the 52 American , 12 hours and 9 minutes after the islamic revolutionary guards finally released them and let them go . Reporter : Kevin just 20 years old then was the youngest of the hostages . I remember watching the footage . And you guys were so skinny and bearded and you looked like you had been through hell . We had . It ' s just we came out the other end , David . Watching what ' s going on in Iran right now , are you having some deja Vu ? Well , I think so . Clearly the events that are playing out right now halfway around the world bring back memories of 35 years ago for ourselves . Reporter : He can remember every detail of those days . The state government of Maine sent over 52 live lobsters for our first meal in freedom . You must think about that every time you eat lobster . I actually do . Reporter : But for him and his fellow hostages the memories of their time inside are impossible to shake . If you were caught even whispering , sometimes even looking at your fellow American , you were immediately put into solitary confinement . I spent 43 days in solitary confinement , David , after trying to escape . Reporter : That was a year before they were finally freed but their ordeal didn ' t end in . He says it was his family who helped him get through it . They ' re the ones that bring you back to reality , they ' re the ones who kick you out of the house and say it ' s time to earn a living . PTSD is a very real challenge . It is a very real problem . And I have a number of friends who were there in Iran with me who to this day still suffer from that . Reporter : Harder still , for the family of bob Levinson who is not part of the prisoner exchange . Please help me . Reporter : Levinson was a former FBI agent who disappeared in Iran nearly a decade ago . His captors sent proof of life three years ago but his wife and son learned the disappointing news he would not be coming home from watching TV . Not a call from the white house ? Or the state department ? No , nothing . Reporter : Heartbroken they spoke with my colleague Brian Ross . We ' re devastated . We had been given assurances over the years that my dad would be a top priority to get him home as much as everybody else , if not more , because he ' s been held for almost nine years . Mrs Levinson , do you consider whether bob might have in fact died in captivity ? No , I will never consider that until I have proof . I believe every day he ' s trying to come home to our family . We will never give up . Our thoughts and prayers continue to be with the Levinson family . The ordeal that they have been through over the last , you know , almost nine years now , is is virtually unthinkable . Reporter : Today the white house vowed the U . S . Will continue to press Iran for details on Levinson ' s fate . We have reason to believe that he no longer is in Iran . Reporter : Today the U . S . Released . Seven men convicted of helping Iran ' s nuclear program and dropped charges against 14 more . But none of the Iranians freed from U . S . Custody elected to go back to Iran . The Obama administration ' s with Iran remains hugely controversial . Just as the Iranian hostage crisis defined jimmy Carter ' s presidency , ultimately dooming his re election efforts , likewise the Iran deal is at least a factor in the 2016 race . The fact is we shouldn ' t have to trade anything to get our citizens back home . We ' ve got to shake our head at how it ' s happening . For one thing the republicans don ' t buy , Iran ' s assurances that the country has suspended its nuclear weapons program . So what does the former hostage think ? Do you feel that president Obama made a bad deal ? Are you talking specifically about getting the five men back this week or four men ? The whole thing . I think the Iranians got a better deal than we did . Reporter : 35 years later , he still hasn ' t forgiven Iran for the 444 days they stole from his life . But he has moved on with his life . He ' s able even to enjoy the movie " Argo " which dealt with one chapter of the hostage crisis all those years ago but he says it was tough to watch . You don ' t want to totally relive even in story telling the most tragic and difficult and darkest moments of a very bad period of your life . And this moment that we ' re living today must bring it all back but at least it brings back the best moment , which is the moment that you were freed . That is so true . You know I think when I am thinking about these guys returning home today , they ' re never going to be the person they were before they were captured . Hopefully they will be a better person than they were . Reporter : Consider this , three of the five prisoners just freed by Iran were held longer than the hostages were 35 years ago . They may be on their way back to the states , but it could be years before they feel truly home . I ' m David Wright for " Nightline " in New York .
