U2 frontman Bono and Facebook co founder Mark Zuckerberg addressed the United Nations headquarters on Saturday , where they were joined by German Chancellor Angela Merkel and UN Secretary General Ban Ki Moon They attended a forum as part of the Global Compact initiative , which focuses on the role of the private sector in implementing the Sustainable Development Goals that were adopted on Friday and include a 15 year global plan of action to end poverty , reduce inequalities and protect the environment . In his opening remarks , the Secretary General spoke about the importance to mobilise the global business community , which by " realising the Sustainable Development Goals will improve the environment for doing business and building markets . Trillions of dollars in public and private funds are to be redirected towards the SDGs , creating huge opportunities for responsible companies to deliver solutions . " Chancellor Merkel , who during her morning address at the General Assembly called for a reform of the UN Security Council to reflect the redistribution of power across the world , said that the link between sustainability , development and good economic policies was good news for the private sector . She said , " the good news for you , for the private sector , is that sustainable development and a good economy go hand in hand . " Zuckerberg said that internet connectivity was a human right , and announced a global joint effort to launch a campaign to support a Declaration of Connectivity to make internet access a global priority . The Facebook co founder said , " I am pleased to announce that Facebook is partnering with the One Campaign , organisations , leaders and public figures all over the world , to launch a global campaign to support a connectivity declaration . The declaration recognises internet access as an important enabler of human rights . " He also said his company would be partnering with the UN to support the millions of refugees escaping war and poverty and gain online connectivity . " We ' ll be working with UNHCR to bring internet to refugee camps . Connectivity will help refugees better access support from the aid community and maintain link to family and loved ones , and Facebook is in a unique position to help maintain this life line , " Zuckerberg said . U2 Frontman and Philanthropist Bono , also took to the stage to speak about the need for the private sector to bridge the gap of economic inequality . The Irish singer said , " I am late to realising that you know , it ' s you guys , it ' s the private sector that it ' s really , it ' s commerce that it ' s going to take the majority of people out of extreme poverty and as an activist I almost found that hard to say . " He also said that today ' s consumers are not just seeking " value " when they purchase goods or services , but " values " . Bono said , " It seems that consumerism is changing and people are realising the power they have in their pockets . They vote when they make a purchase . They vote for your brands or they don ' t . And these days people are waking up to that power they have in their pockets and they want not just value , it seems that they want values . " With the support of business and other stakeholders , the UN Global Compact ' s governance framework was adopted by former UN Secretary General Kof Annan in 2005 , with a mandate to promote responsible business practices and UN values among the global business community and the UN System . Footage and script courtesy of Unifeed
