I agree , there is a broad consensus that there is a problem . But there are huge differences on what to do about it . If you look at the policy prescriptions of the Republican Party , all of them will make the situation worse . They want to undo regulations , they want to make the tax code more skewed towards the wealthy , they all talk about tax policies that are a massive give away to the rich . But they say their rhetoric . There is convergence on the rhetoric on the problem . There is a huge differential between the Republican Party s donor base and the problem . In fairness , Mr Trump has more leeway in dealing with what to do with Wall Street . He is capitalizing on anger about plutocrats controlling the political process . He criticies all these other guys for taking donations from rich people and holds himself separate by saying that I don t take money from them . I think there is power there . You can see why people like that . In every election cycle , Republicans feel this problem Americans feel that the country is becoming more unequal , all the money goes to rich people , they are working harder , the wealthier amass all the wealth which is all true . 98 percent of the income has gone to the top one percent , wages have been stagnant for some years and in fact median wages in fact came down between 2005 and 2015 . We Democrats have a problem ? that we had power and we were not able to shape that course . Our answers have not been sufficient to the problem . But the problem with the Republican Party is that their donor base requires them to support policies that make things worse . And you see that this election cycle as well . In this election cycle they have become more nuanced , they have recognised that there is a problem with the Wall Street , but still they put forward a tax plan that is bigger giveaway to the rich . If the Republicans got to the point where they could ignore their donors and actually come with ideas that would help the middle class , they will have real opportunities .
