We are counting down to Thanksgiving in the most delicious way possible . Wolfgang joined us to show us how to cook a Turkey without ruffling your feathers . We ' re talking no hassle Thanksgiving . Exactly . No hassle and one part . I ' m going to put in one pan , a Turkey , I ' m going to cook the sweet potatoes and make the gravy all in one . What I do when I cook at home I put a few fresh herbs underneath the skin , huge sage , rosemary , thyme . Whatever you want and now here I have some sweet potatoes . You have them or if you like butternut squash , throw them in the roasting pan and then if you love garlic , you know if you ' re an Italian Thanksgiving , we need garlic , all right . A little salt and put the Turkey right on top here . That ' s a big guy . Okay , all right . Put it right in here . Put it on 55 minutes , 450 , so I put the level now it ' s under pressure . Seal it , 450 , roast . And 60 minutes , 55 minutes . 60 minutes . So now after 55 minutes , you release the pressure , okay . We ' re going Stand back . It ' s okay . You have enough pressure here too . I got one baking . Not a pressure cooker though . It ' s opinion a long process Look what we have in here . Ooh . A beautiful Turkey in under an hour so this is a 14 pounder . All right . And now , let me take this off here . Oh , do you want me to help . So now going to show you how to make the gravy . Yes , please . So I ' m going to put the juice here in the blender . Open it up . You see all the juice here . We ' ll put that in here . Nice and instead of using flour , we use a few sweet potatoes , all right . Now we can turn it on . Oh , there we go . Just like at home so you blend it a little and naturally we have to taste it . Right . So this is you don ' t have to do anything else for the gravy . Nothing else . Happy Thanksgiving . Happy Thanksgiving , everybody out there . To everybody out there . Find these recipes on our website , goodmorningamerica . com on Yahoo ! And we are going to
