But first , robin , you had a chance to sit down with Bernie and Jane sanders . Yes , he ' s making headlines overnight , he said he ' s not stopping here in Iowa , he ' s going all of the way to the convention . Not many expected that Hillary Clinton would have such serious competition and she has and it is , from a senator from Vermont . He ' s drawing younger crowds at his stops . I had a chance to talk to him and his wife . It sounds like you want to make a political revolution . Reporter : He ' s the democratic hopeful behind that revolution , taking on income and wealth inequality . I caught up with Bernie sanders and his wife just hours before the big day backstage after a rally in Des Moines . I think you said that today , no matters what happens with the caucus you ' re in it for the long haul . Absolutely . I think our message is resonating throughout the country . I got the tell you , robin , all over the country , when I talk about that , people say absolutely . Reporter : People will timely be able to say speak . What are your thoughts . I think we will win if there ' s a large voter turnout . Younger people , lower income people , if they come out in big Numbers we ' ll win . If they don ' t we won ' t . We want to see an enlivening of the democracy , here in new Hampshire everywhere else , we want to see people vote . We want to see them caucus and vote . Hillary Clinton ' s chief strategist said you have run the most negative campaign in a democratic primary , ever . My god , going back 500 years . I have tried my best , never making personal attacks against Hillary Clinton , debating the issues . When we talk about me running a negative campaign , that ' s absurd . I heard that you went to the white house and there are only two people who were not wearing a tux you and Nelson Mandela , was that true in . Yes . If there ' s an inaugural ball will you final I don ' t think so . You know , a tux is kind of symbol of class privilege . That says I ' m really important and I ' m fancy and you ' re something else . Senator sanders joins me now . You told my colleague recently , Martha Raddatz , tongue in cheek , you got a big ego like most politicians , how do you stay grounded in it ' s a scary experience because people are putting so much faith into you . It ' s divot . You know , you don ' t want to let people down . In fact , one of the hesitancies that I had about running in the first place that I didn ' t want to let people down . Mrs Sanders , you said that ' s one of the reasons you fell in love his wife Jane of more than 25 years who he proposed at a friendly ' s parking lot after being on break . Enough , enough . It ' s national television . He wanted to go out again and I said , no , I want to get married . So , and I love you and we ' re best friends now . Let ' s not mess it up . He had to ask me a couple of times . He said , no , will you marry me ? I said , fine . Reporter : Saw the big hug that you gave a veteran on the way out and I know Mrs Sanders you said a veteran stopped you all , when you were on the fence on whether or not your husband should run , that sealed it for you . Yes . When people are counting on you have to deliver . Reporter : You ' re not used to this underdog type position . They always say , he can ' t win . He can ' t be a senator . Each time he ' s proven them wrong . Explain . Last night was his 100th stop here in the state of Iowa . And as you can see , his wife brings out another side of the candidate . She taps into his core strength , persistence . I remember , I was working in congress 25 years ago when he first got to congress . One of the most striking thing about Bernie sanders , his mess sang is consistent all these 25 years . When he ran for mayor , he won by ten votes . He has that tenacity , you ' re right , he stays on message and he ' s been consistent throughout . We ' ll see what happens tonight , no question .
