Now to a hot trend taking over TV , the internet and the airwaves , we ' re talking about true crime series . The latest binge watching sensation is netflix " Making a murderer " and the docudrama has a lot buzzing . ABC ' s David Wright has the story . Reporter : Over ten episodes you can binge watch . I was the happiest on Earth . Reporter : Netflix " Making a murderer " unravels the case of Steven Avery . He served 18 years behind bars for a sexual assault he didn ' t commit only to be rearrested for murder . The series shows serious doubts about the murder case . It rolls out almost like a soap opera . Gets people truly invested in the story and clearly feeling incredibly passionate about it . Reporter : So much so local authorities say they have received hundreds of messages from people who support Avery bombarding them with hostile tweets even scathing reviews on yelp . The former prosecutor practically accused of framing Avery for murder sent us a point by point rebuttal of the filmmaker ' s case calling the series irresponsible adding netflix should either provide an opportunity for rebuttal or alert the viewers that the series was produced by and for the defense of Steven Avery . We feel our process was very thoughtful . We were always concerned with accuracy and fairness . ? Reporter : True crime stories have been popular for years starting with " Dragnet . " But this new wave of true crime is different with storytellers taking sides . Hbo ' s " Jinx " resulted in new murder charges being brought against millionaire Robert durst . One story told week by week . Reporter : The hugely popular " Serial " podcast looking to open up this murder conviction of Adnan . They are trial by media . It ' s a double edge sword . On the one hand it can be very powerful enforcing government officials to act . On the other hand , it can lead to overreactions depending on the situation . Reporter : According to netflix Steven Avery exhausted all his appeals and no longer entitled to a court pointed lawyer and the innocence project is taking another look . In a result these true crime shows can become an Ames process when you ' ve run out of appeals . So true . All right , coming up here on
