January 6 , 1991Yesterday , and only yesterday , I decided to go to Afghanistan . I believe that I have talked to you about a plan to go to Afghanistan before , which was unsuccessful . However , this time it is different the rest of the sentence is crossed out and illegible . I have decided to visit the place , receive training and come back to conclude my education . The intent is bona fide , God willing . Almost everything is ready except that I am scared of the circumstances . Yet I trust in God . And we seek refuge in Him . January 19 , 1991We arrived yesterday morning we are in Peshawar . The system here , as we have learned later on , is as follows : First : the services office it is an office that handles jihad matters and Arab mujahedin ' s organisation as well as support to both Arab and Afghani mujahedin . From that office branches many houses for the incoming mujahedin from outside Afghanistan , Arabs and others . The spiritual atmosphere here is good . Some came to train for a short period and go back just to be prepared . Others are here for jihad and until God decides for something to be done . Some are young their beards or moustache have not appeared yet . Others are old in their fifties or more . Also , the idea of settling here is enticing me and I cannot seem to control it . May 1 , 1991My brother , Mahir , came finally . In short , we sat together and talked . He talked about many things that are somehow frustrating the mother , the father , the brothers and parents ' obedience and , in addition to few quick fatwas created by his emotions . Anyway , we both do not and will not understand each other . Also , dear Hani , we sat by the stream that runs through the camp . He was reading my father ' s letter to me I gave it to him to read it . He said , " Read your father ' s letter it is better for you . " He meant what they are suffering from because of me . I smiled and ripped it before his eyes while he is shocked and hurt and his face became gloomy . I tried explaining to him the importance of sacrifice for the sake of the religion and he tried , may God bless him , to explain to me the importance of having the parents ' approval for jihad . May 17 , 1991 , Khaldan Camp , AfghanistanYesterday , the group and I began a special course in explosives . The morning exercise line up begins at 6am jogging , fast pace running , mountain climbing and special exercises . As you notice , most of the ideas I ' m dealing with now at the jihad level are practical and they were the same ideas but unorganised and not fully clear . Perhaps , life ' s stress and order prevented from enhancing them practically or even from thinking about them such as caliphate and Islamic principles . July 3 , 1991 , Gardez , AfghanistanI , rather , we the explosives group , are in Gardez now at the back line since last Friday . Airplane shelling , and one of the shells landed in the heart of the camp but praise God , no one was injured . Continuous artillery shells , digging ditches , carrying rocks from the mountain , dirt , sweat and exhaustion a true mental relaxation , God willing and oh God ! July 7 , 1991 , Gardez , AfghanistanToday is Sunday and the time now is perhaps 12 . 30pm . Place : The big tent which houses more than l5 people . The planes are hovering around us they strike one time and other times they don ' t however the artillery shells are continuous . Running to the ditches and face down on the ground , but I am relatively cool and don ' t run to the dugout and don ' t even go face down on the ground sometimes as a matter of fact , I don ' t know why .
