I ' m pretty good matchup receivable fifty right now stage set after championships Sunday Denver Broncos didn ' t take on the Carolina Panthers . After the Broncos roughed up Tom Brady and the patriots tight battle last night . It strikes hit her with all pilots rely on good morning it ' s gonna be huge Georgia ' s football version of old school vs new 26 year old Camden in the fan there ' s . Against the Broncos and Peyton Manning the oldest quarterback to figure Steve that a big game . Thanks tools win for the ages . This morning . People many heading back to the Super Bowl for a fourth time so after winning dad ' s got down and grind it out football battle against his biggest on field rival . Tom Brady and the New England Patriots . There AFC championship game Sunday night the seventy . Of the two Super Bowl winning quarterbacks . And did instant classic Brady feels the state . The Broncos defense do the talking in this love best hitting Brady over twenty times . The most tips on any quarterback in a game this season . Even Denver police poking fun at the patriots tweeting got a missing persons notification . On the Patriots offense . Stephen . For this wall put down by eight points with just twelve seconds to play Brady fighting back . Throwing this touchdown strike . And just at two point conversion away from tying it up and in this happen . The Broncos clinching the win until there was the game . But didn ' t write the bulletin its gold medal . The Broncos don ' t fit the face off against the Carolina Panthers in the Super Bowl . But to him thirst losing only one game all season . Dominating a 34 point win over the Arizona Cardinals Sunday night . Hardly a new home . Dancing his way into the end zone twice now and they get ready for the biggest game of all its big film star vs one of the greatest . So many saying he ' s not getting into what if scenarios about whether the Super Bowl could be as last game but he didn ' t have to answer to this . Limited amount of playoff games you . And he didn ' t emerge . It wasn ' t until . All that ' s his four year old son and take a look at autonomy even a Super Bowl quarterbacks who can be owned by pre screening is exactly can we go home . It ' s like the opposite of staff Curry ' s daughter yeah like I got this look at how .
