Award season kicks off tonight and Hollywood with the golden globes . You and I love spot sve " Spotlight . " Chris Connelly joining us from L . A . With who may be making acceptance speeches tonight . Good morning , Chris . Reporter : Yeah , this year the golden globes are short on sure things and long on suspense . Wide open categories without clear favorites mean nom of the nominees will feeling all comfortable and that ' s before Ricky Gervais opens his mouth . With fewer than 100 voters casting ballots and cinematic landscape with undecided races expect the golden globes to have head smacking surprises this season . " The revenant " ' s Leonardo Dicaprio is the front runner in best actor drama and most to be on the business end of a zinger from Ricky Gervais who poured plenty of comedic cyanide into champagne glasses . The golden globes are to the oscars what Kim Kardashian is to Kate Middleton . Bit trashier , bit drunker and more easily bought . Reporter : America may get its first look at brie Larson for " Room " while " Spotlight " may be the slight favorite for movie drama then you think this is funny , in best movie comedy or musical " The Martian " might be bested by " The big short " with Christian bale and Matt Damon likely vying on this side . While 015 ' s favorite bffs Jennifer Lawrence in " Joy " and Amy Schumer in tra " trainwreck " lead this , mysteries is bound in the supporting categories . Though Sylvester stone is a sentimental favorite for reprising rocky in " Creed " and Kate winslet from " Steve jobs " may be the apple of voters ' eyes . With bleeding edge nominees from all manner of viewing platforms , the relentless fashion forward globes might be drawn to last summer ' s critical fave rave " Mr Robot " while taraji P . Henson may lead the way for " Empire " Empire . . " I ' m here to get what ' s mine . Reporter : Making it a night to remember for boo boo kittys everywhere . You know when it comes to movie awards we talk of the globes telecast as the beginning of something but it ' s the end of something . The last set of awards by critics . Now it ' s the guilds weighing , screen actors guild , purchase , directors , people who make movies and many of them are Oscar voters , guys . All right . Chris , we can ' t wait for tonight ' s big show . Thank you .
