We turned out of the fire debate back home the backlash against refugees . As authorities grow more convinced that one of the attackers posed as a refugee . Using this passport . And look at the bout tonight at least 29 governors in the US now saying refugees are not welcome . Tonight house speaker Paul Ryan calling for a pause in the president ' s plan to welcome 101000 Syrian refugees to be US saying it ' s better to be safe than sorry . And just today Donald Trump sitting down with our own Barbara Walters what he says about the issue . On the campaign trail tonight here ' s ABC ' s Jonathan call . Presidential candidate Ted crews told ABC news today . That he is pushing legislation to ban any Syrian refugees who are Muslim from coming into the United States . What if you ask you Christian green or Muslim and knew when we can ' t do that he you know at the end of the day that ' s not that complicated there ' s no history . Of nicest terrorist in bedding in the Christian community pretending to be Christian and really gets on American assay only Christians and Muslims near suggest he ' s suggesting that . All Muslims or are terrorists are a threat of that being terrorists what I ' m suggesting is the commander in chief things are radical Islamic terrorists and there are Muslims or not what I ' m suggesting is the commander in . Should protect this nation . In an interview is Barbara Walters for 20 20 . Donald Trump says he wants to ban all Syrian refugees Christian and Muslim . Some people are saying that . Only Christian not Muslim refugees . From center . Should be allowed and should we make that tests from as we don ' t know if it Christian and I would certainly say that would be superior . But we don ' t know of that Christian . We have no idea who the people are they have no papers they have no paperwork . You can get forged documents very easily in Syria . The administration says that each refugee goes through extensive background checks by multiple agencies in fact David they say that process takes . Eighteen to 24 months before refugee can set foot in the United States . Jon Karl in Washington for us John thank you and we will have much more of Barbara Walters interview with Donald Trump and his wife . A special edition of 2020 Barbara walters ' exclusive this Friday night . And PM Easter .
