and the first big battle , the Iowa caucuses roughly three weeks away . Hillary Clinton ' s campaign sent some panicked e mails this week and things are tightening up on the republican side . Here ' s ABC ' s Devin Dwyer . Isn ' t a trump rally more fun than all these other stiffs ? Reporter : In South Carolina Donald Trump touts the latest poll that has him on top . Killing everybody nationally . Second 19 or 20 ors is like that . Reporter : He ' s ahead by LE digits with 35 in a new fox national poll but in Iowa he ' s at 23 in a much closer rai race . He heads to the hawkeye state where Cruz is on top logging hundreds of miles and handshakes this week . Thank you very much . Reporter : Pointing out trump likes to swoop into Iowa on his plane to campaign and then go home . Labor intensive . You don ' t do it from a TV studio in Manhattan . Reporter : Hillary Clinton was at a studio Friday in L . A . To play charades with Ellen DeGeneres and president F Fitzpatrick from " Scandal . " Panicked Clinton e mails warn donors that polls in new Hampshire and Iowa are seriously tight and after months of mostly ignoring the Vermont senator Clinton is going on the attack . Senator sanders voted with the gun lobby and I voted against the gun lobby . Maybe it ' s time for senator sanders to stand up and say , I got this one wrong . Reporter : Sanders fired back calling Clinton a flip flopper on guns after hours earlier coming to her defense over questions about her personal life . What bill Clinton did , I think we can all acknowledge was totally , totally , totally disgraceful and unacceptable but I am running against Hillary Clinton , I ' m not running against bill Clinton . Reporter : And with so much on the line the candidates are swarming Iowa today , Donald Trump and Ted Cruz hold dueling events in the state . Bernie sanders will be there too . One person not on the trail today , Hillary Clinton . Dan and Paula . It was a busy place this morning . Thank you , Devin . A remind ABC news will broadcast president Obama ' s state of the union address and the republican response which will be by south Carolina governor Nikki Haley Tuesday night beginning at 9 : 00 eastern . All right , a lot of other
