A lot of unhappy people in Cincinnati . The countdown is on to the clash of two titans . We are anticipating an epic battle , number one Clemson taking on number two ' bama . Rob is on the scene in Glendale , Arizona . Good morning , rob , if you can hear us . Hello . Good morning . Paula . Good morning , Dan . They have come from Clemson , South Carolina , from tus Ka loose have , Alabama . To this south side of Phoenix , Arizona , there ' s the field behind me , it ' s a natural grass field but the paint is still dry and played the super bowl here last year and this year they are vying for this . The national championship trophy . Yes . Presented by Dr Pepper . I don ' t know , guys . Who do you think is going to win ? The center of the college football universe is right here in Glendale , Arizona , with the number one undefeated Clemson tigers heading into the second ever college football national championship game . Against the storied Alabama crimson tide . The celebration kicking off with the band Perry who are loyal to their Alabama roots . You choose Alabama or Auburn . We chose the crimson tide . Reporter : While the fun was going on out there , the players and coaches were getting the work . Are you able to have fun ? We ' re we don ' t use that word here . Reporter : Nick Saban no stranger Cho the big stage all business looking for redemption after falling just short of making it to the national title game last year . Ohio state is going to win it . As we tried to do in the past is quality control on what we did and how we did it and hoi could we do it better ? Reporter : Now he comes in wist his heisman tree fin winning running back Derek Henry ready to turn the tide . The tigers and their coach dabo Sweeney going to rely on their moves on the field as national championships for the first time in over 35 years . Clemson wins the national championship . It ' s not about the other team . It ' s not about who you play . It ' s about how you play . Cannot wait for this game tomorrow night . Nick like last year it will phenomenal . I ' ll be on that field tomorrow night . One of the lucky ones but really the winners will be the folks at home and ESPN last year record 33 . 2 million people watched . The most ever for a cable broadcast , guy , so it ' s going to be a great game . Good luck to you big el . Good luck to you , cub . Fighting tigers against the crimson tide . He has a future in sports , that Dr Marciano . Do you remember who you took ?
