It ' s a Hollywood sequel that has some of the industry ' s biggest stars saying they ' ll boycott its most celebrated night . For the second year in a row all best acting Oscar nominees are white and tonight as Americans honor the legacy of Dr Martin Luther King Jr . Two African American Hollywood stars say they are skipping the show . Here ' s ABC ' s Lindsay Davis . The revenue . Spotlight . The martian . Many of this year ' s best picture nominations are high intensity . Tonight the real drama is happening offspring as backlash mounts over the Oscar ' s lack of diversity . This second year in a row all best lead in supporting actor and actress nominees are white even the best picture nominees feature predominately white ensembles . The absence of minority nominees . Inspiring some big names to declare they ' ll boycott the ceremonies including director Spike Lee whose films shot ironic . Didn ' t pick up any nominations . Okay misery in stride Jada Pinkett Smith also says she you ' ll get tangled releasing this video on FaceBook earlier today . Begging . Thornton she . Team . Maybe she ' s CE . The hash tag Oscars so light is also making a red vinyl people tweeting . Fifty shades of gray has been nominated for more Oscars than people of color this year and Oscars so white rock he got nominated in a movie about Apollo creed son . True also among the snubbed Will Smith who played a forensic pathologist and passion . And that was don ' t eat the critically acclaimed straight on a constant picked up one nomination for its screenplay . Many have noted that the writers are why . Searle Boone Isaacs the first black president of the academy . Has said incorporating minorities in the film industry is a priority . We have meaning louder and louder and we ' re going to continue this conversation tonight she announced the academy will be conducting a review of membership . In hopes of increasing diversity . The spotlight is now on comedian Chris Rock . This is host and many are wondering if he ' ll address the controversy on stage earlier this week he tweeted out a new promo . Terrorists along with a caption calling the Oscars the YBE teel Wuertz for Nightline on Lindsey Davis in New York .
